# Send in the Clowns: Big Tent Digital Humanities<a href="/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one/README.markdown#tent-intro" name="tent-intro">.</a>
	
<a href="/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one/README.markdown#tent-intro" name="tent-intro">
What has become painfully clear is that while digital humanities has its historical roots in humanities computing, as it has matured, it has become something far greater and more ambitious than humanities computing. From humble origins in automated concordances to harbinger of a Kuhnian paradigm shift, the full impact of the digital humanities requires some further analysis.
</a>

In the first two of his four part series on the digital humanities, Patrick Svensson explores the relation between the humanities and information technology. The two articles provide both a deep and broad analysis of the digital humanities as a whole, exploring it's historical roots in humanities computing, the discursive shift towards digital humanities, and the ongoing expansion into five different, but interconnected "modes of engagement." 

According to Svensson the digital humanities is a very distinct epistemic culture from humanities computing. Where the digital humanities are "broad and inclusive", humanities computing has a tightly focused scholastic agenda. With the discursive shift of humanities computing to the digital humanities a tension emerged. "[T]he renaming of humanities computing to digital humanities brings with it a set of epistemic commitments that are not necessarily congruent with a broad and inclusive notion of the digital humanities."[(Svensson 2009)](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000065/000065.html) This tension revolves around the idea of the "digital" being more than a set of methodologies, but a research object in and of itself. This has resulted in a cyclic tension,

>"There are many humanities scholars involved in what may be called digital humanities who have no or little knowledge of humanities computing, and vice versa, many humanities computing representatives who do not engage much with current "new media" studies of matters such as platform studies, transmedia perspectives or database aesthetics."[(Svensson 2009)](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000065/000065.html) 

The cross fertilization of both epistemic cultures has the potential to yield the best fruit. Scholars versed in both the mechanics of code and the ability to critically situated the code within a cultural context are desperately needed. "Most of these "objects" are studied and analyzed within different kinds of new media settings and to me this is an interesting in-between zone. Would humanities computing be interested in engaging more with new media scholars? There is certainly a need for well-crafted tools for studying online life and culture."[(Svensson 2009)](http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000065/000065.html)

The true promise of the big tent digital humanities is to become a primordial ooze for a new kind of scholar, a multimodal scholar [(McPherson 2009)](http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/cj/summary/v048/48.2.mcpherson.html), who straddles the epistemic worlds of humanities computing and new media studies. There is something, a "humanist mystique" that I believe informs the design of technology. As Unsworth puts it, "[humanists] can make...a better infrastructure, if our perspectives, our training, and our expertise are included in its design and deployment." [(Unsworth 2009)](http://www3.isrl.illinois.edu/~unsworth/Cyberinfrastructure.RLG.html) 

## Digital Humanities Institutionalized

Incubating the digital humanities and multimodal scholars requires institutional support structures to enable social reproducibility. <a name="social-reproducibility" href="/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one/CyberInfrastructure.markdown#social-reproducibility">In his history of Cybernetics, Andrew Pickering noted that while cybernetics was met with great enthusiasm in the late 50s (as digital humanities is today), institutions to cultivate and graduate programs to train the next generation of cyberneticians never stabilized.</a> In the next phase of evolution for the digital humanities, institutions will play a key role in it's form and function.

Cathy Davidson and the [Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Advanced Collaboratory](http://hastac.org) have done a lot of work to promote an expanded notion of the digital humanities. <a name="humanities-2" href="mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one/Multimodal.markdown#humanities-2">Davidson wants the digital humanities to become a rallying point for change not only in research questions and methods but also in the way teach, what we teach, our intellectual products, our systems of promotion & credentialing, and the very foundations of humanities social institution. This vision of the digital humanities is fundamentally different, but very much related to, humanities computing. Davidson considers humanities computing to be humanities 1.0 (although I'm not sure what then the traditional humanities might be, humanities 0.0?), the digital humanities with its revolutionary rhetoric is humanities 2.0.
</a>

HASTAC Has become an institutional home for the new breed of digital humanists who treat the “digital” as an object of study as opposed to a particular set of tools or methods. The digital humanities needs to move beyond radicalizing manifestoes and debates about ["who should code."](http://lenz.unl.edu/papers/2011/01/08/whos-in-and-whos-out.html) Fortunately I think the communities now moving beyond in internal turf wars. The emergence of digital humanities institutions provides a measure of external  validity to the digital humanities. So in the notional endowment for the humanities legitimized the digital humanities it was a significant moment in it's evolution.

Both McPherson (2009) and Krischenbaum (2010) noted the formation of the Office of the Digital Humanities as a salient event. Institutions need to play a significant role in the social reproduction and sustainability of the digital humanities. The vision of those who steer those institutions then will have a significant influence in shaping the future evolution of digital humanities.

> "Let me expand on what I mean by “digital humanities.” We use “digital humanities” as an umbrella term for a number of different activities that surround technology and humanities scholarship. Under the digital humanities rubric, I would include topics like open access to materials, intellectual property rights, tool development, digital libraries, data mining, born-digital preservation, multimedia publication, visualization, GIS, digital reconstruction, study of the impact of technology on numerous fields, technology for teaching and learning, sustainability models, and many others." [(Bobley 2008)] (http://www.neh.gov/whoweare/cio/odhfiles/Why.The.Digital.Humanities.pdf)

This definition of the digital humanities is important not only because it is held by Brett Bobley of NEH's Office of Digital Humanities, but it also stretches the historical definition rooted in humanities computing. "Digital humanities" Bobley says "seem[s] to cast a wider net than “humanities computing” which seem[s] to imply a form of computing, whereas “digital humanities” implie[s] a form of humanism. I also thought it would be an easier sell to the humanities community to have the emphasis on “humanities.”[(Bobley from Kirschenbaum 2010)](http://mkirschenbaum.files.wordpress.com/2011/01/kirschenbaum_ade150.pdf)
The shift in emphasis, away from a computing centric frame towards a more amorphous, humanistic frame was a wise move. <a name="dh-interest" href="/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one/Grey-Literature.markdown#dh-interest"> The interest in the "digital humanities" has skyrocketed since 2005. At the same time, "humanities computing" has had a slow decline.</a> From the funders perspective, this can only be a good thing. Increased interest in the digital humanities from both within and without the humanities will be increasingly important over the next few years. The digital humanities shows great promise in bringing positive attention to the humanities and potentially healing the rift of the two cultures (Snow 1959). 