chapter-one/Code.markdown, before:

# To code or not to code: Computational Literacy <a name="code-intro">.</a>


	[Ramsay blog posts, responses?]
	[Salter 2010, program or be programmed. See also comments]
	[hockey 2004, 1986 - code is the new latin? This is an endless debate]
	[the praxis program]
	[joula 2008 scholarship in HC languished b/c traditional humanities lack incentive]
	[Kirschenbaum 201? Hello worlds]


There are several binary divides in the digital humanities, theory/builder, hack/yack, code/no-code. (Pannapacker 2011 - http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915)


Kirschenbaum weighed in at the Chronicle for Higher Education with a provocatively titled article "Hello Worlds: Why humanities students should learn to program"

The coding debates are nothing new in humanities computing,

> "[The early] period [of humanities computing] also saw the introduction of courses on various aspects of humanities computing. Some courses were given by staff within academic computing centers and concentrated mostly on the mechanics of using specific software programs. Others looked more broadly at application areas. Those given by academics tended to concentrate on their own interests giving rise to student projects in the same application areas. A debate about whether or not students should learn computer programming was ongoing. Some felt that it replaced Latin as a "mental discipline" (Hockey 1986)." (Hockey 2004) 



> "Much early archaeological computing required scholars to write their own programs, but that is no longer necessary. Most now use commercial software, although special archaeological problems such as certain statistical procedures and seriation routines
continue to inspire programming by archaeologists." (Eiteljorg 2004, Companion)

The Oxford Companion to the Digital Humanities provides an entire section on the principals of computing, explaining how a computer works (Laue 2004), databases (Ramsay 2004), and modeling (McCarty 2004). These selection, which get down to the level of explaining the SQL code to create a relational database, have an opinion as to whether digital humanists should learn to code. 


> "The question of modeling arises naturally for humanities computing from the prior question of what its practitioners across the disciplines have in common. What are they all doing with their computers that we might find in their diverse activities indications of a coherent or cohesible practice? How do we make the best, most productive sense of what we observe? There are, of course, many answers: practice varies from person to person, from project to project, and ways of construing it perhaps vary even more...I argue for modeling as a model of such a practice." (McCarty 2005)


One pragmatic argument for digital humanists to learn to code is to reduce the pressure on the demand for programmers. The need for coders is only going to increase as more infrastructural projects get funded, as new research questions get asked, and as the digital humanities increases in popularity. This rising demand must be situated with a reality that digital humanities jobs generally don't pay as well, or even are not as technically interesting, than engineering-first industry jobs. Now, not all programmers are interested in industry jobs, there are a few "creative coders" or "renaissance developers," (Clark 2011 - http://blog.wk.com/2011/10/21/why-we-are-not-hiring-creative-technologists/)[Clark was speaking about these kinds of programmers in creative agencies (advertising), but I'd argue their challenges attracting the right kind of talent mirror those of the digital humanities] with a nice blend of engineering + humanism who might be attracted to digital humanities work.

Commit message:

adding a nice quote from mark sample

chapter-one/Code.markdown, after:

# To code or not to code: Computational Literacy <a name="code-intro">.</a>


	[Ramsay blog posts, responses?]
	[Salter 2010, program or be programmed. See also comments]
	[hockey 2004, 1986 - code is the new latin? This is an endless debate]
	[the praxis program]
	[joula 2008 scholarship in HC languished b/c traditional humanities lack incentive]
	[Kirschenbaum 201? Hello worlds]


There are several binary divides in the digital humanities, theory/builder, hack/yack, code/no-code. (Pannapacker 2011 - http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915)


Kirschenbaum weighed in at the Chronicle for Higher Education with a provocatively titled article "Hello Worlds: Why humanities students should learn to program"

The coding debates are nothing new in humanities computing,

> "[The early] period [of humanities computing] also saw the introduction of courses on various aspects of humanities computing. Some courses were given by staff within academic computing centers and concentrated mostly on the mechanics of using specific software programs. Others looked more broadly at application areas. Those given by academics tended to concentrate on their own interests giving rise to student projects in the same application areas. A debate about whether or not students should learn computer programming was ongoing. Some felt that it replaced Latin as a "mental discipline" (Hockey 1986)." (Hockey 2004) 

> "DH shouldn’t only be about the production of knowledge. It’s about challenging the ways that knowledge is represented and shared." [(Sample 2011)](http://www.samplereality.com/2011/05/25/the-digital-humanities-is-not-about-building-its-about-sharing/
)


> "Much early archaeological computing required scholars to write their own programs, but that is no longer necessary. Most now use commercial software, although special archaeological problems such as certain statistical procedures and seriation routines
continue to inspire programming by archaeologists." (Eiteljorg 2004, Companion)

The Oxford Companion to the Digital Humanities provides an entire section on the principals of computing, explaining how a computer works (Laue 2004), databases (Ramsay 2004), and modeling (McCarty 2004). These selection, which get down to the level of explaining the SQL code to create a relational database, have an opinion as to whether digital humanists should learn to code. 


> "The question of modeling arises naturally for humanities computing from the prior question of what its practitioners across the disciplines have in common. What are they all doing with their computers that we might find in their diverse activities indications of a coherent or cohesible practice? How do we make the best, most productive sense of what we observe? There are, of course, many answers: practice varies from person to person, from project to project, and ways of construing it perhaps vary even more...I argue for modeling as a model of such a practice." (McCarty 2005)


One pragmatic argument for digital humanists to learn to code is to reduce the pressure on the demand for programmers. The need for coders is only going to increase as more infrastructural projects get funded, as new research questions get asked, and as the digital humanities increases in popularity. This rising demand must be situated with a reality that digital humanities jobs generally don't pay as well, or even are not as technically interesting, than engineering-first industry jobs. Now, not all programmers are interested in industry jobs, there are a few "creative coders" or "renaissance developers," (Clark 2011 - http://blog.wk.com/2011/10/21/why-we-are-not-hiring-creative-technologists/)[Clark was speaking about these kinds of programmers in creative agencies (advertising), but I'd argue their challenges attracting the right kind of talent mirror those of the digital humanities] with a nice blend of engineering + humanism who might be attracted to digital humanities work.
