chapter-one/Grey-Literature.markdown, before:

# His Dark Materials: Grey Literature<a href="/mcburton/writing/tree/master/chapter-one/#grey-intro" name="gre-intro" >.</a>

<a href="/mcburton/writing/tree/master/chapter-one/#grey-intro" name="gre-intro" >
One of the underlying promises of the digital humanities has been a re-evaluation of the boundary between formal scholarly publishing and informal scholarly communication. In my review of the digital humanities literature I would be remiss if I didn't pay attention to the so-called "grey literature," which has come to mean more than simply technical reports and white papers, but also blogging, list-serves and maybe even tweets. Most of the interesting discussion and debate about the digital humanities happens far too fast for the existing system of scholarly publishing.
</a>

## Where the action Is 

As a little experiment I decided to compare the use of the terms "humanities computing" and "digital humanities" using Google ngrams for books and Google Insights for the web. The results were interesting.

<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/ngram-DHvsHC.png" width="600" height="300"/>

What this images shows is a slow rise of the term "humanities computing" starting in the 1960s and peaking in the early 2000s. I consider the google books ngram to be a very rough approximation of "traditionally published" literature since this visualization draws from the Google Books index. It is interesting to see the dominance of "humanities computing," especially in the last decade. This makes sense if we consider the slow pace of monograph publishing. Digital humanities as a term of art is very recent, only gaining wide popularity in 2004. We see a small peak on this graph in 2005, a year after the publication of the Oxford Companion, and then a small decline coming into 2008, when the data set ends. My hunch is that we will start to see a big spike in the term "digital humanities" in the literature starting in 2012. I believe this because of what I see in the Google Insights data, which tracks the popularity of search terms through time.

<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/insights-DHvsHC.png" width="610" height="298"/>

"Digital humanities" has skyrocketed since 2005 and peaked very recently. While at the same time, "humanities computing" has had a slow decline. Sadly the data does not extend before 2004, so we can't see the historical trends in interest (damn you Google for not existing!). The big spike in Google searches for "digital humanities" indicates a dramatically increased interest in the last year and a half (and perhaps a rather poor proxy for the amount of grey literature produce). This increased interest has probably lead to an increased number of scholars to write books about the digital humanities. Conversely, the decreasing interest in the term "humanities computing" probably indicates not a decline in humanities computing per se, but rather the sublimation of the term "humanities computing" into "digital humanities." I suspect we will probably see a lot more books about the digital humanities (and not humanities computing) in the coming years as the slow pace of monograph publishing catches up with the rapid pace of the blogosphere.

## Visibility Infrastructure 

It is not simply enough to think great ideas you must also share them. The system of scholarly publishing is the mechanism by which we render visible our knowledge, we transform ideas into scholarship. With this in mind Kirschenbaum tells us,

> "Whatever else it might be then, the digital humanities today is about a scholarship (and a pedagogy) that is publicly visible in ways to which we are generally unaccustomed, a scholarship and pedagogy that are bound up with infrastructure in ways that are deeper and more explicit than we are generally accustomed to, a scholarship and pedagogy that are collaborative and depend on networks of people and that live an active 24/7 life online." (Kirschenbaum 2011)

Kirschenbaum has identified as the ongoing tension between scholarship and infrastructure and the mutually constitutive relationship between knowledge and scholarly publishing.  This relationship and the tensions through time have been overcome by the establishment of various collective habits, routines, patterns of practice. The digital humanities does however, is a kind of “infrastructural inversion” (Bowker & Star 1999,  over 1994) , that is it forces us to question how the built assumptions classifications and categories of the existing infrastructure interfere with the constitution of knowledge. This is done through the digital humanities active engagement with new media as a means for the dissemination of knowledge. Blogs, twitter, mailing lists, and other new modalities of communication made possible by the Internet have been enthusiastically taken up by digital humanists. These technologies invert the information/individual visibility dynamics,  instead of a default position of invisibility within the sphere of your scholarly peers, everyone is visible and reachable via blogs and twitter so that the traditional channels which regulate the relationship are no longer in control. For instance, just recently [I tweeted William Pennapacker asking him if he was going to write an article about the recent HASTAC  conference. He responded yes they usually take about a month and asked if I had any ideas. I responded that I hadn't gone to the digital humanities conference in Stamford and so I would be interested in a comparison between the recent HASTAC conference on Digital humanities conference.](http://twitter.com/#!/mcburton/status/148765842987954176) We will see what he writes in his column.

One of the most fascinating developments in the digital humanities is the “day in the life of the digital humanities” series of blog posts. Every year the community of digital humanities bloggers rights of what they spent their time doing throughout the day. It provides very interesting self ethnographic accounts of digital humanist practice. At a moment when the question of what is digital humanities practice these accounts can be immeasurably valuable. For through this visibility of individual practice emerges a more cohesive community of practice. However, to anyone interested today in reading these accounts there is a slight problem [the wiki which indexes all of these blog posts is not online.](http://tapor.ualberta.ca/...php/Day_in_the_Life_of_the_Digital_Humanities)

## Infrastructure is invisible until it breaks

The 1st result on Google for “a day life of digital humanities” is a link to the TAPoR wiki. TAPor is the "Text Analysis Portal for Research" a ["gateway to representative texts and sophisticated text analysis tools."](http://tapor.ualberta.ca/)  for the past several years they have used their wiki to host an index of all the blog posts from all of the bloggers who participate in the data digital humanities. The reason why this is the number 1 hit on Google is because of the way the page rank algorithm works. Page rank lists links that are most linked to this link with the index gives link to in all of the blood Prince as the main place to go to learn more about a day in the life of the digital humanities. This is great, except when it's not. The reason it is not is that the wiki is down. Because of the strict robots.txt file this page has not been indexed. that means there's no cached copying in Google and there's no copy in the wayback machine at the Internet archive.  the wiki is down in the resource is not available.

This is the dark side of the structure. We take for granted that the infrastructure of the Internet will simply work. Link rot is the breaking of URLs such that the resource is no longer available or has changed since the link was made to said resource.  link is the plague of blogging and twitter.  Over time the links in blogs and tweets may stop working, this is a very substantial problem if we are to consider the Internet as a system of publishing. fortunately or unfortunately, the instability of the web has done pretty much nothing in governing the blogging and tweeting tendencies digital humanists. Case in point this document is full of links, is hosted using a commercial service, and uses a non-standardized (except in practice) system for markup. I, perhaps dangerously assume, the infrastructure necessary so that you can read these words will continue to be operational in the near future. 

##  At a Furious Pace

So when we give up long-term stability what do you gain? The low barrier of entry to the digital humanities conversation in the history.  The pace in which we can communicate with our peers via blogs, tweeting, e-mail  happened so rapidly, and for many of us are naturally, that we get frustrated when we can't communicate using these modalities. As I mentioned above, my exchange with William Pannapacker was made possible through twitter.  I "@" replied him and he responded within a day. I could have e-mailed him but tweeting is so natural for this form of interaction. In reality I probably never e-mail him because of the social norms of formality associated with email and the "work" of finding his contact information. With twitter, since I was already following @pannapacker, I can simply type his name and away my message goes. Easy. Perhaps too easy.


## Overload

Perhaps ironically it is also William Pannapacker who notes,

"[T]he incessant Twittering is a lot to keep up with, like being nibbled to death by ducks, and yet it seems like that’s where the action is..." [(Pannapacker 2011)](http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915#comment-11482)

He makes a really good point about twitter, is overwhelming. In a time when we are completely overwhelmed with the sheer amount of work necessary to be a scholar, to add yet another thing, a thing which is constantly streaming, updating, tweeting, re-tweeting, at-replying, seems to be too much. There isn't enough time in the day to all of one's scholarly obligations (reading, writing, research, teaching, committees, conferences, grant writing, etc.). 

<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/pace-scholarly-communication.png" width="525" height="350"/>

The various technologies of scholarly communication each afford a distinctive discursive pace. Books are slow, they take a long time to read and even longer to write, but the long-form arguments has no equal in the discourse. Journals provide somewhat of a break to the time commitment of the monograph, but they can sometimes take as long as books to be published. Blogging provides the perfect release valve to the time constraints. There is nothing preventing long-form argument and the feedback cycle with blogging comments is immediate. As Dan Cohen notes, [the pace of blogging is perfect for the busy scholar. ](http://www.dancohen.org/2006/08/21/professors-start-your-blogs/) 

In a blog post about the pace of scholarly debate, Jeffery Pomerantz notes how technologically mediated public forums afford a radically different discursive dynamic. First, he notes a back-and-forth in the journal JASIST which took two years to complete three moves. In the blogosphere,

> "I witnessed another intellectual debate with three moves recently: Paul Courant to Siva Vaidhyanathan to Paul Courant. Total elapsed time: two days. Two days! The Courant-Vaidhyanathan exchange was literally 365 times faster than the Bates-Hjørland exchange." [(Pomerantz 2008)](http://www.ibiblio.org/pomerantz/blog/2008/02/intellectual-debates-in-public-forums/)

Twitter is the wildcard. Twitter's demand upon your attention is addictive, yet, as Pannapacker notes, it seems to be "where the action is." While there is no question that twitter has had a significant impact upon the digital humanities community, there is little reflective analysis about the nature of that impact. Twitter has been criticized as the ["cool-kids' table"](http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915) and there are [serious issues about inclusion/exclusion.](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/academics-and-social-media-mla11-free-wifi-and-the-question-of-inclusion/29945) Yet, as Dan Cohen notes,

> "social media such as Twitter has provided a surprisingly good set of pointers toward worthy materials I should be reading or exploring. (And as happened with blogs five years ago, the critics are now dismissing Twitter as unscholarly, missing the filtering function it somehow generates among so many unfiltered tweets.)" [(Cohen 2009)](http://www.dancohen.org/2009/11/18/introducing-digital-humanities-now/)

Resources like [Digital Humanities Now](http://digitalhumanitiesnow.org/) filter the massive stream of blogs and tweets so interested parties don't have to do it themselves. Digital Humanities Now shows how editorial functions might operate in the digital age. It is also an experiment. It sets a president for how we might evaluate and criticize digital scholarship. How scholarship selection functions in a digital age is still unknown, but we won't know until we try.

Commit message:

some notes from Mark's blog post on twitter

chapter-one/Grey-Literature.markdown, after:

# His Dark Materials: Grey Literature<a href="/mcburton/writing/tree/master/chapter-one/#grey-intro" name="gre-intro" >.</a>

<a href="/mcburton/writing/tree/master/chapter-one/#grey-intro" name="gre-intro" >
One of the underlying promises of the digital humanities has been a re-evaluation of the boundary between formal scholarly publishing and informal scholarly communication. In my review of the digital humanities literature I would be remiss if I didn't pay attention to the so-called "grey literature," which has come to mean more than simply technical reports and white papers, but also blogging, list-serves and maybe even tweets. Most of the interesting discussion and debate about the digital humanities happens far too fast for the existing system of scholarly publishing.
</a>

## Where the action Is 

As a little experiment I decided to compare the use of the terms "humanities computing" and "digital humanities" using Google ngrams for books and Google Insights for the web. The results were interesting.

<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/ngram-DHvsHC.png" width="600" height="300"/>

What this images shows is a slow rise of the term "humanities computing" starting in the 1960s and peaking in the early 2000s. I consider the google books ngram to be a very rough approximation of "traditionally published" literature since this visualization draws from the Google Books index. It is interesting to see the dominance of "humanities computing," especially in the last decade. This makes sense if we consider the slow pace of monograph publishing. Digital humanities as a term of art is very recent, only gaining wide popularity in 2004. We see a small peak on this graph in 2005, a year after the publication of the Oxford Companion, and then a small decline coming into 2008, when the data set ends. My hunch is that we will start to see a big spike in the term "digital humanities" in the literature starting in 2012. I believe this because of what I see in the Google Insights data, which tracks the popularity of search terms through time.

<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/insights-DHvsHC.png" width="610" height="298"/>

"Digital humanities" has skyrocketed since 2005 and peaked very recently. While at the same time, "humanities computing" has had a slow decline. Sadly the data does not extend before 2004, so we can't see the historical trends in interest (damn you Google for not existing!). The big spike in Google searches for "digital humanities" indicates a dramatically increased interest in the last year and a half (and perhaps a rather poor proxy for the amount of grey literature produce). This increased interest has probably lead to an increased number of scholars to write books about the digital humanities. Conversely, the decreasing interest in the term "humanities computing" probably indicates not a decline in humanities computing per se, but rather the sublimation of the term "humanities computing" into "digital humanities." I suspect we will probably see a lot more books about the digital humanities (and not humanities computing) in the coming years as the slow pace of monograph publishing catches up with the rapid pace of the blogosphere.

## Visibility Infrastructure 

It is not simply enough to think great ideas you must also share them. The system of scholarly publishing is the mechanism by which we render visible our knowledge, we transform ideas into scholarship. With this in mind Kirschenbaum tells us,

> "Whatever else it might be then, the digital humanities today is about a scholarship (and a pedagogy) that is publicly visible in ways to which we are generally unaccustomed, a scholarship and pedagogy that are bound up with infrastructure in ways that are deeper and more explicit than we are generally accustomed to, a scholarship and pedagogy that are collaborative and depend on networks of people and that live an active 24/7 life online." (Kirschenbaum 2011)

Kirschenbaum has identified as the ongoing tension between scholarship and infrastructure and the mutually constitutive relationship between knowledge and scholarly publishing.  This relationship and the tensions through time have been overcome by the establishment of various collective habits, routines, patterns of practice. The digital humanities does however, is a kind of “infrastructural inversion” (Bowker & Star 1999,  over 1994) , that is it forces us to question how the built assumptions classifications and categories of the existing infrastructure interfere with the constitution of knowledge. This is done through the digital humanities active engagement with new media as a means for the dissemination of knowledge. Blogs, twitter, mailing lists, and other new modalities of communication made possible by the Internet have been enthusiastically taken up by digital humanists. These technologies invert the information/individual visibility dynamics,  instead of a default position of invisibility within the sphere of your scholarly peers, everyone is visible and reachable via blogs and twitter so that the traditional channels which regulate the relationship are no longer in control. For instance, just recently [I tweeted William Pennapacker asking him if he was going to write an article about the recent HASTAC  conference. He responded yes they usually take about a month and asked if I had any ideas. I responded that I hadn't gone to the digital humanities conference in Stamford and so I would be interested in a comparison between the recent HASTAC conference on Digital humanities conference.](http://twitter.com/#!/mcburton/status/148765842987954176) We will see what he writes in his column.

One of the most fascinating developments in the digital humanities is the “day in the life of the digital humanities” series of blog posts. Every year the community of digital humanities bloggers rights of what they spent their time doing throughout the day. It provides very interesting self ethnographic accounts of digital humanist practice. At a moment when the question of what is digital humanities practice these accounts can be immeasurably valuable. For through this visibility of individual practice emerges a more cohesive community of practice. However, to anyone interested today in reading these accounts there is a slight problem [the wiki which indexes all of these blog posts is not online.](http://tapor.ualberta.ca/...php/Day_in_the_Life_of_the_Digital_Humanities)

## Infrastructure is invisible until it breaks

The 1st result on Google for “a day life of digital humanities” is a link to the TAPoR wiki. TAPor is the "Text Analysis Portal for Research" a ["gateway to representative texts and sophisticated text analysis tools."](http://tapor.ualberta.ca/)  for the past several years they have used their wiki to host an index of all the blog posts from all of the bloggers who participate in the data digital humanities. The reason why this is the number 1 hit on Google is because of the way the page rank algorithm works. Page rank lists links that are most linked to this link with the index gives link to in all of the blood Prince as the main place to go to learn more about a day in the life of the digital humanities. This is great, except when it's not. The reason it is not is that the wiki is down. Because of the strict robots.txt file this page has not been indexed. that means there's no cached copying in Google and there's no copy in the wayback machine at the Internet archive.  the wiki is down in the resource is not available.

This is the dark side of the structure. We take for granted that the infrastructure of the Internet will simply work. Link rot is the breaking of URLs such that the resource is no longer available or has changed since the link was made to said resource.  link is the plague of blogging and twitter.  Over time the links in blogs and tweets may stop working, this is a very substantial problem if we are to consider the Internet as a system of publishing. fortunately or unfortunately, the instability of the web has done pretty much nothing in governing the blogging and tweeting tendencies digital humanists. Case in point this document is full of links, is hosted using a commercial service, and uses a non-standardized (except in practice) system for markup. I, perhaps dangerously assume, the infrastructure necessary so that you can read these words will continue to be operational in the near future. 

##  At a Furious Pace

So when we give up long-term stability what do you gain? The low barrier of entry to the digital humanities conversation in the history.  The pace in which we can communicate with our peers via blogs, tweeting, e-mail  happened so rapidly, and for many of us are naturally, that we get frustrated when we can't communicate using these modalities. As I mentioned above, my exchange with William Pannapacker was made possible through twitter.  I "@" replied him and he responded within a day. I could have e-mailed him but tweeting is so natural for this form of interaction. In reality I probably never e-mail him because of the social norms of formality associated with email and the "work" of finding his contact information. With twitter, since I was already following @pannapacker, I can simply type his name and away my message goes. Easy. Perhaps too easy.


## Overload

Perhaps ironically it is also William Pannapacker who notes,

"[T]he incessant Twittering is a lot to keep up with, like being nibbled to death by ducks, and yet it seems like that’s where the action is..." [(Pannapacker 2011)](http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915#comment-11482)

He makes a really good point about twitter, is overwhelming. In a time when we are completely overwhelmed with the sheer amount of work necessary to be a scholar, to add yet another thing, a thing which is constantly streaming, updating, tweeting, re-tweeting, at-replying, seems to be too much. There isn't enough time in the day to all of one's scholarly obligations (reading, writing, research, teaching, committees, conferences, grant writing, etc.). 

### The Pace of Scholarly Communication
<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/chapter-one/pace-scholarly-communication.png" width="525" height="350"/>

The various technologies of scholarly communication each afford a distinctive discursive pace. Books are slow, they take a long time to read and even longer to write, but the long-form argument has no equal in the scholarly discourse. Journals provide a smaller time commitment of the monograph to write, but can sometimes take just as long to be published. The slow pace of journals and monographs creates a high barrier to scholarly discourse, you really have to work at back-and-forth debate. Blogging on the other hand, provides release from such time constraints. There is nothing preventing long-form argument and the publishing/feedback cycle is immediate. As Dan Cohen notes, [the pace of blogging is perfect for the busy scholar. ](http://www.dancohen.org/2006/08/21/professors-start-your-blogs/) 

In a blog post about the pace of scholarly debate, Jeffery Pomerantz notes how technologically mediated public forums afford a radically different discursive dynamic. First, he notes a back-and-forth in the journal JASIST which took two years to complete three moves. In the blogosphere,

> "I witnessed another intellectual debate with three moves recently: Paul Courant to Siva Vaidhyanathan to Paul Courant. Total elapsed time: two days. Two days! The Courant-Vaidhyanathan exchange was literally 365 times faster than the Bates-Hjørland exchange." [(Pomerantz 2008)](http://www.ibiblio.org/pomerantz/blog/2008/02/intellectual-debates-in-public-forums/)

As noted by the diagram, twitter is the wildcard. Twitter's demand upon your attention is addictive, yet, as Pannapacker notes, it seems to be "where the action is."  In a blog post about twitter Mark Sample explores how twitter affects his own writing process,

>"There’s one final realization I’ve had about Twitter. For a while I had been wondering whether every word I wrote on Twitter was one less word I would write somewhere else. Was Twitter distracting me from what I really needed to write? Was Twitter making me less prolific? And so here it is, my most coherent articulation of what led me to break suddenly from social media: I quit Twitter because I wished to write deliberately, to type only the essential words of my research, and see if I could not learn what Twitterless life had to teach, and not, when I came up for tenure, discover that I had not written at all.
>
>Or something like that.
>
>It only took a few days before I knew the answer to my question about Twitter and writing. And it’s this: writing is not a zero sum game.
>
>I write more when I tweet."[(Sample 2010)](http://www.samplereality.com/2010/12/03/twitter-is-a-happening-to-which-i-am-returning/)

What Sample is telling us here is it isn't the infrastructure of twitter from which he derives value, it isn't it followers or followees. Rather it is the act of tweeting, of crafting 140 characters into a pithy, snarky little quip, that helps him write more outside of twitter. While this is interesting, it is also important to remember this is a personal reflection, written on a blog, and not any sort of general valuation of twitter. There is no question that twitter has had a significant impact upon the digital humanities community and scholarly practice. What we need now is more reflective analysis about the nature of that impact.

Twitter has been criticized as the ["cool-kids' table"](http://chronicle.com/blogs/brainstorm/pannapacker-at-mla-digital-humanities-triumphant/30915) and there are [serious issues about inclusion/exclusion.](http://chronicle.com/blogs/profhacker/academics-and-social-media-mla11-free-wifi-and-the-question-of-inclusion/29945) Yet, as Dan Cohen notes,

> "social media such as Twitter has provided a surprisingly good set of pointers toward worthy materials I should be reading or exploring. (And as happened with blogs five years ago, the critics are now dismissing Twitter as unscholarly, missing the filtering function it somehow generates among so many unfiltered tweets.)" [(Cohen 2009)](http://www.dancohen.org/2009/11/18/introducing-digital-humanities-now/)

Resources like [Digital Humanities Now](http://digitalhumanitiesnow.org/) filter the massive stream of blogs and tweets so interested parties don't have to do it themselves. Digital Humanities Now shows how editorial functions might operate in the digital age. It is also an experiment. It sets a president for how we might evaluate and criticize digital scholarship. How scholarship selection functions in a digital age is still unknown, but we won't know until we try.
