annotatedbib.markdown, before:

# Annotated Bibliography

## Digital Humanities 

### Humanities Scholarship in the Digital Age 

1.  Anon. n.d. "Hacking the Academy." Retrieved July 21, 2011a (http://hackingtheacademy.org/).
1.  Borgman, C. L. 2009. "The digital future is now: A call to action for the humanities." Digital Humanities Quarterly 3(4) (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/4/000077/000077.html).
1.  Borgman, Christine L. 2007. Scholarship in the digital age. MIT Press Retrieved (http://books.google.com/books?id=ZDDu3CuzDdMC).
1.  Burgess, Helen J., and Jeanne Hamming. 2011. "New Media in the Academy: Labor and the Production of Knowledge in Scholarly Multimedia." Digital Humanities  Quarterly 5(3) (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/3/000102/000102.html).
1.  Harley, D., S. K Acord, S. Earl-Novell, S. Lawrence, and C. J King. 2010. “Assessing the future landscape of scholarly communication: An exploration of faculty values and needs in seven disciplines.” History Case Study. (http://escholarship.org/uc/item/15x7385g#page-399)
1.  Rosenzweig, Roy. 2010. Clio Wired: The Future of the Past in the Digital Age. Columbia University Press (http://books.google.com/books?id=4nivoPD7L40C).
1.  Unsworth, John M. n.d. "Cyberinfrastructure for the Humanities and Social Sciences." Retrieved June 3, 2009  (http://www3.isrl.illinois.edu/~unsworth/Cyberinfrastructure.RLG.html).

### What is Digital Humanities? A Brief Definition

1.  Anon. n.d. "Scholarly Tribes and Tribulations: How Tradition and Technology Are Driving Disciplinary Change." Retrieved July 21, 2011b  (http://www.arl.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/resources/pubs/tribes/program.shtml).
1.  Hockey, S. 2004. "The history of humanities computing." A companion to digital humanities 1–19. (http://v.gd/oqlWN4)
1.  McCarty, Willard. 2005. Humanities Computing. Palgrave Macmillan. (http://books.google.com/books?id=sop5QgAACAAJ)
1.  Siemens, Ray, John Unsworth, and Susan Schreibman. 2004. Companion to Digital Humanities (Blackwell Companions to Literature and Culture). Hardcover. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing Professional Retrieved (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/companion/).
1.  Svensson, P. 2010. "The landscape of digital humanities." Digital Humanities Quarterly 4(1). (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/4/1/000080/000080.html)
1.  Svensson, Patrik. 2009. "Humanities Computing as Digital Humanities." 3(3). Retrieved July 21, 2011 (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000065/000065.html).
1.  UCLA Digital Humanities & Media Studies. 2008. "A Digital Humanities Manifesto." Retrieved August 11, 2009 (http://dev.cdh.ucla.edu/digitalhumanities/2008/12/15/digital-humanities-manifesto/).
1.  Unsworth, John. 2003. "The Humanist: ‘Dances with Wolves’ or ‘Bowls Alone’?" Retrieved August 31, 2009 (http://www.arl.org/resources/pubs/tribes/program.shtml).
1.  Unsworth, John. 2002. "What is Humanities Computing, and What is Not?" (http://computerphilologie.uni-muenchen.de/jg02/unsworth.html)

## Scholarly Publishing

### Mechanics of New Digital Publishing

1.  Brown, L., R. Griffiths, M. Rascoff, and K. Guthrie. 2007. "University publishing in a digital age." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3):1–60 (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.301).
1.  Brown, Susan et al. 2009. "Published Yet Never Done: The Tension Between Projection and Completion in Digital Humanities Research." 3(2). Retrieved July 21, 2011. (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/2/000040/000040.html)
1.  Cecile M. Jagodzinski. 2008. "The University Press in North America: A Brief History." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(1):1-20. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.1.jagodzinski.html)
1.  Donatich, John. 2009. "Why Books Still Matter." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(4):329-342. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.4.donatich.html)
1.  Esposito, Joseph J. 2010. "Stage Five Book Publishing." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.204).
1.  Fitzpatrick, Kathleen. 2007. "CommentPress: New (Social) Structures for New (Networked) Texts." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.305).
1.  Fraser, John W. Maxwell and Kathleen. 2010. "Traversing The Book of Mpub: an Agile, Web-first Publishing Model." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.303).
1.  Johns, A. 1998. The nature of the book: Print and knowledge in the making. University of Chicago Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=ERpBdEUdhz8C)
1.  Kirschenbaum, Matthew G. 2008. Mechanisms: New Media and the Forensic Imagination. The MIT Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=CT0oPmcrciAC)
1.  Kling, R., & Spector, L. (2002). Academic rewards for scholarly research communication via electronic publishing (No. WP- 02-13). Bloomington, IN: Center for Social Informatics. (http://hdl.handle.net/2022/167)
1.  Kling, R. (2003). The internet and unrefereed scholarly publishing (No. WP- 03-01). Bloomington, IN: Center for Social Informatics. (http://hdl.handle.net/2022/166)
1.  Lynch, Clifford. 2010. "Imagining a University Press System to Support Scholarship in the Digital Age." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.207).
1.  Mandel, C. A, M. C Summerfield, and P. Kantor. 1997. "Online Books at Columbia: Measurement and Early Results on Use, Satisfaction, and Effect." (http://www.arl.org/resources/pubs/scat/mandel-2.shtml)
1.  Sewell, David. 2009. "It’s For Sale, So It Must Be Finished: Digital Projects in the Scholarly Publishing World." 3(2). Retrieved July 21, 2011 (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/2/000039/000039.html).
1.  Steele, Colin. 2008. "Scholarly Monograph Publishing in the 21st Century: The Future More Than Ever Should Be an Open Book." Journal of Electronic Publishing 11(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0011.201).
1.  Summerfield, M., C. Mandel, and P. Kantor. 1999. The Online Books Evaluation Project, Columbia University; Final Report. (Still looking for URL)
1.  Wicht, Lynn Silipigni Connaway and Heather L. 2007. "What Happened to the E-book Revolution? : The Gradual Integration of E-books into Academic Libraries." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.302).

### The Crisis of Scholarly Monograph Publishing. 

1.  Association of American University Presses, "Digital Publishing in the AAUP Community; Survey Report: Winter 2009-2010," (http://aaupnet.org/resources/reports/0910digitalsurvey.pdf)
1.  Alonso, C. J, C. N Davidson, J. Unsworth, L. Withey, and American Council of Learned Societies. 2003. Crises and opportunities: the futures of scholarly publishing. American Council of Learned Societies. (http://www.acls.org/Publications/OP/57_Crises_and_Opportunites.pdf)
1.  Anon. n.d. "Kairos 15.2: Gold, ‘Becoming Book-Like: Bob Stein and the Future of the Book’ (Interview)." Retrieved July 21, 2011a (http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/15.2/interviews/).
1.  Davidson, C. N. 2004. "The futures of scholarly publishing." Journal of scholarly publishing 35(3):129–142. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v035/35.3davidson.html)
1.  Fitzpatrick, K. 2010. "Planned obsolescence: Publishing, technology, and the future of the academy." (http://mediacommons.futureofthebook.org/mcpress/plannedobsolescence/)
1.  Greco, Albert N., and Robert M. Wharton. 2010. "The Market Demand for University Press Books 2008–15." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 42(1):1-15. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v042/42.1.greco.html)
1.  Greenblatt, S. 2002. "Call for Action on Problems in Scholarly Book Publishing: A Special Letter from the President." MLA Documents and Reports 28. (http://www.mla.org/scholarly_pub)
1.  James, Stephen. 2011. "Flogging a Dead Book?: Prospects for the Scholarly Book and the University Press in Australia." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 42(2):182-204. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v042/42.2.james.html)
1.  Steele, Colin. 2008. "Scholarly Monograph Publishing in the 21st Century: The Future More Than Ever Should Be an Open Book." Journal of Electronic Publishing 11(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0011.201).
1.  Thompson, J. W. 2002. "The death of the scholarly monograph in the humanities? Citation patterns in literary scholarship." Libri 52(3):121–136. (http://librijournal.org/pdf/2002-3pp121-136.pdf)
1.  Unsworth, J. M. 2003. "The crisis in scholarly publishing in the humanities." ARL Bimonthly Report 228. (http://www.arl.org/bm~doc/crisis.pdf)
1.  Waters, L. 2000. "A modest proposal for preventing the books of the members of the MLA from being a burden to their authors, publishers, or audiences." Publications of the Modern Language Association of America 315–317. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/463452)
1.  Waters, Lindsay, and Jana L. Argersinger. 2009. "Slow Writing; or, Getting Off the Book Standard: What Can Journal Editors Do?" Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(2):129-142. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.2.waters.html)
1.  Wicht, Lynn Silipigni Connaway and Heather L. 2007. "What Happened to the E-book Revolution? : The Gradual Integration of E-books into Academic Libraries." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.302).

## Work Practice   

### Ethnomethodology & Situated Practice

1.  Ackerman, M. S. 2000. "The intellectual challenge of CSCW: The gap between social requirements and technical feasibility." Human–Computer Interaction 15(2):179–203. (http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1463020)
1.  Button, Graham, and Richard Harper. 1995. "The relevance of "work-practice" for design." Computer Supported Cooperative Work 4:263–280. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://www.springerlink.com/content/pj851233076m611n/)
1.  Button, Graham, and Paul Dourish. 1996. “Technomethodology: paradoxes and possibilities.” Pp. 19–26 in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems: common ground, CHI  ’96. Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada: ACM Retrieved July 25, 2011 (http://doi.acm.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/10.1145/238386.238394).
1.  Crabtree, A. 2004. “Taking technomethodology seriously: hybrid change in the ethnomethodology–design relationship.” European Journal of Information Systems 13(3):195–209. (http://www.mrl.nott.ac.uk/~axc/documents/papers/EJIS04.pdf)
1.  Dourish, Paul. 2001. Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction. The MIT Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=DCIy2zxrCqcC)
1.  Dourish, P., and G. Button. 1998. “On Technomethodology: foundational relationships between ethnomethodology and system design.” Human-Computer Interaction 13(4):395–432. (http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download;jsessionid=99816C42C85AF970B3598FED602321EB?doi=10.1.1.25.7616&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
1.  Flor, Grace de la, Marina Jirotka, Paul Luff, John Pybus, Ruth Kirkham (2010) ‘Transforming scholarly practice: embedding technological interventions to support the collaborative analysis of ancient texts’, Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) 19/3-4: 309-334 (http://www.springerlink.com/content/jj6228l261064264/)
1.  Goodwin, C. 1994. "Professional vision." American anthropologist 96(3):606–633. (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1525/aa.1994.96.3.02a00100/abstract)
1.  Heath, C., and P. Luff. 2000. Technology in action. Cambridge Univ Pr. (http://books.google.com/books?id=aBMVwhVSyyAC)
1.  Heath, Christian, Hubert Knoblauch, Paul Luff (2000) 'Technology and Social Interaction: The emergence of 'workplace studies', British Journal of Sociology 51: 299-320 (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-4446.2000.00299.x/abstract)
1.  Hutchby, Ian. 2001. "Technologies, Texts and Affordances." Sociology 35(2):441 -456. Retrieved May 11, 2011. (http://soc.sagepub.com/content/35/2/441.abstract)
1.  Rawls, Anne Warfield. 2008. "Harold Garfinkel, Ethnomethodology and Workplace Studies." Organization Studies 29(5):701 -732. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://oss.sagepub.com/content/29/5/701.abstract)
1.  Suchman, Lucy. 2006. Human-Machine Reconfigurations: Plans and Situated Actions. 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=KES20V7aP4YC)
1.  Suchman, Lucy (2000) 'Making a case: "Knowledge" and "Routine" work in document production'. In Luff, P., J. Hindmarsh, C. Heath, eds. Workplace Studies: Recovering Work Practice and Informing Systems Design. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press: 29-45 (http://books.google.com/books?id=w5S8sLDhAqQC)
1.  Szymanski, Margaret H., and Jack Whalen. 2011. 'Making Work Visible: Ethnographically Grounded Case Studies of Work Practice.' 1st ed. Cambridge University Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=HuC9Zf7IRywC)
1.  Engeström, Yrjö. (2000) 'From individual action to collective activity and back: developmental work research as an interventionist methodology'. In Luff, P., J. Hindmarsh, C. Heath, eds. Workplace Studies: Recovering Work Practice and Informing Systems Design. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (http://books.google.com/books?id=w5S8sLDhAqQC)

### Organizational Routine

1.  Becker, M., M. C Becker, and N. Lazaric. 2009. Organizational routines: advancing empirical research. Edward Elgar Publishing. (http://books.google.com/books?id=8DHhSs8r5iMC)
1.  Birnholtz, J. P, M. D Cohen, and S. V Hoch. 2007. "Organizational character: On the regeneration of camp poplar grove." Organization Science 18(2):315. (http://orgsci.journal.informs.org/cgi/content/abstract/18/2/315)
1.  Brown, J. S, and P. Duguid. 2001. "Knowledge and organization: A social-practice perspective." Organization science 198–213. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/3086055)
1.  Cohen, M. D et al. 1996. "Routines and other recurring action patterns of organizations: contemporary research issues." Industrial and Corporate Change 5(3):653. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/5/3/653.short)
1.  Cohen, Michael D. 2007. "Reading Dewey: Reflections on the Study of Routine." Organization Studies 28(5):773 -786. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://oss.sagepub.com/content/28/5/773.abstract)
1.  Feldman, M. S, and W. J Orlikowski. 2011. “Theorizing practice and practicing theory.” Organization Science orsc–1100. (http://socialecology.uci.edu/sites/socialecology.uci.edu/files/users/feldmanm/OS_Practice_Theory_Paper_FINAL_submitted.doc)
1.  Feldman, M. S, and B. T Pentland. 2003. "Reconceptualizing Organizational Routines as a Source of Flexibility and Change." Administrative Science Quarterly 48(1):94–121. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/3556620)
1.  Feldman, Martha S. 2000. “Organizational Routines as a Source of Continuous Change.” Organization Science 11(6):611–629. Retrieved August 1, 2011. (http://portal.acm.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/citation.cfm?id=767742.768710)
1.  Hales, Mike, and Joe Tidd. 2009. "The practice of routines and representations in design and development." Industrial and Corporate Change 18(4):551 -574. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/18/4/551.abstract)
1.  Pentland, Brian T, and Martha S Feldman. 2008. "Designing routines: On the folly of designing artifacts, while hoping for patterns of action." Information and Organization 18:235–250. Retrieved May 12, 2011. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471772708000298)
1.  Pentland, Brian T., and Martha S. Feldman. 2005. "Organizational routines as a unit of analysis." Industrial and Corporate Change 14(5):793 -815. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/14/5/793.abstract)

Commit message:

notes from Borgman 2009, added Willinsky reference to scholarly publishing section

annotatedbib.markdown, after:

# Annotated Bibliography

## Digital Humanities 

### Humanities Scholarship in the Digital Age 

1.  Anon. n.d. "Hacking the Academy." Retrieved July 21, 2011a (http://hackingtheacademy.org/).
1.  Borgman, C. L. 2009. "The digital future is now: A call to action for the humanities." Digital Humanities Quarterly 3(4) (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/4/000077/000077.html).
	- She defines DH as "digital humanities is a new set of practices, using new sets of technologies, to address research problems of the discipline"
	- Digital humanities has a lot of catching up to do with the sciences, infrastructure is lacking.
	- DH infrastructure needs those who do DH, not just developers, to build out infrastructure.
	- "The reasons for the slow adoption of digital publishing in the humanities are many, from not trusting online dissemination to a general reluctance to experiment with new technologies, even those well proven — "professionally indisposed to change" as Ken Hamma puts it [Hamma 2009]"
	- "Monographic publishing, which is core to humanities scholarship, has begun a seismic shift toward digital publishing [Jaschik 2008]; [Jaschik 2009]; [Poe 2001]; [Willinsky 2006]; [Willinsky 2009]. "
	- Digital publishing in the sciences has afforded wider access to scholarship. It seems that Borgman conflates digital publishing with open access (or at least only very briefly engages the difference in paragraph 18) when she talks about increased citation rates for digital publication. There is more nuance she could have gone into here, but chose not to. I find this interesting.
	- She goes on to talk about about technological impact with humanities Data, Research Methods, Collaboration, Incentives, and learning. 
	- Call to acton for Digital humanities:
		- What are Data?
		- What are the infrastructure requirements?
		- Where are the social studies of digital humanities?
		- What is the humanities laboratory of the 21st century?
		- What is the value proposition for digital humanities in the era of declining budgets?
	- The shape of these questions implies, to me at least, that Borgman wants the humanities to become more like the sciences. For got and for bad, concepts like "data", "laboratory" are very science centic and make me wonder if they are potentially mutually exclusive to a humanitarian epistemology. At the same time, I complete agree that we need more social studies of digital humanities (exemplified by this projet). The call for infrastructure also appeals to the builder in me, and I agree there needs to be serious effort to tease out the potential difference between scientific and humanities infrastructure. This relates to the value proposition, which is very complicated. From a funding of infrastructure perspective, do we pay for a cathedral or a bizarre (in the eric raymond sense)? What happens if we fund the wrong cathedral? I think there needs to be some fecundity, but there also needs to be a common platform that evolves to support the fecund boutique projects.
		- *Cites*
		- Hamma, K. (2009). "Professionally indisposed to change." EDUCAUSE Review, 44(2): 8-9. (http://net.educause.edu/ir/library/pdf/ERM0929.pdf)
		- Jaschik, S. (2008). "Publishing and values." Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved from (http://www.insidehighered.com/news/2007/08/22/anthro)
		- Willinsky 2009 Willinsky, J. (2009). "Toward the Design of an Open Monograph Press." Journal of Electronic Publishing, 12(1). (http://dx.doi.org/10.3998/3336451.0012.103)
1.  Borgman, Christine L. 2007. Scholarship in the digital age. MIT Press Retrieved (http://books.google.com/books?id=ZDDu3CuzDdMC).
1.  Burgess, Helen J., and Jeanne Hamming. 2011. "New Media in the Academy: Labor and the Production of Knowledge in Scholarly Multimedia." Digital Humanities  Quarterly 5(3) (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/5/3/000102/000102.html).
1.  Harley, D., S. K Acord, S. Earl-Novell, S. Lawrence, and C. J King. 2010. “Assessing the future landscape of scholarly communication: An exploration of faculty values and needs in seven disciplines.” History Case Study. (http://escholarship.org/uc/item/15x7385g#page-399)
1.  Rosenzweig, Roy. 2010. Clio Wired: The Future of the Past in the Digital Age. Columbia University Press (http://books.google.com/books?id=4nivoPD7L40C).
1.  Unsworth, John M. n.d. "Cyberinfrastructure for the Humanities and Social Sciences." Retrieved June 3, 2009  (http://www3.isrl.illinois.edu/~unsworth/Cyberinfrastructure.RLG.html).

### What is Digital Humanities? A Brief Definition

1.  Anon. n.d. "Scholarly Tribes and Tribulations: How Tradition and Technology Are Driving Disciplinary Change." Retrieved July 21, 2011b  (http://www.arl.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/resources/pubs/tribes/program.shtml).
1.  Hockey, S. 2004. "The history of humanities computing." A companion to digital humanities 1–19. (http://v.gd/oqlWN4)
1.  McCarty, Willard. 2005. Humanities Computing. Palgrave Macmillan. (http://books.google.com/books?id=sop5QgAACAAJ)
1.  Siemens, Ray, John Unsworth, and Susan Schreibman. 2004. Companion to Digital Humanities (Blackwell Companions to Literature and Culture). Hardcover. Oxford: Blackwell Publishing Professional Retrieved (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/companion/).
1.  Svensson, P. 2010. "The landscape of digital humanities." Digital Humanities Quarterly 4(1). (http://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/4/1/000080/000080.html)
1.  Svensson, Patrik. 2009. "Humanities Computing as Digital Humanities." 3(3). Retrieved July 21, 2011 (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/3/000065/000065.html).
1.  UCLA Digital Humanities & Media Studies. 2008. "A Digital Humanities Manifesto." Retrieved August 11, 2009 (http://dev.cdh.ucla.edu/digitalhumanities/2008/12/15/digital-humanities-manifesto/).
1.  Unsworth, John. 2003. "The Humanist: ‘Dances with Wolves’ or ‘Bowls Alone’?" Retrieved August 31, 2009 (http://www.arl.org/resources/pubs/tribes/program.shtml).
1.  Unsworth, John. 2002. "What is Humanities Computing, and What is Not?" (http://computerphilologie.uni-muenchen.de/jg02/unsworth.html)

## Scholarly Publishing

### Mechanics of New Digital Publishing

1.  Brown, L., R. Griffiths, M. Rascoff, and K. Guthrie. 2007. "University publishing in a digital age." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3):1–60 (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.301).
1.  Brown, Susan et al. 2009. "Published Yet Never Done: The Tension Between Projection and Completion in Digital Humanities Research." 3(2). Retrieved July 21, 2011. (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/2/000040/000040.html)
1.  Cecile M. Jagodzinski. 2008. "The University Press in North America: A Brief History." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(1):1-20. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.1.jagodzinski.html)
1.  Donatich, John. 2009. "Why Books Still Matter." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(4):329-342. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.4.donatich.html)
1.  Esposito, Joseph J. 2010. "Stage Five Book Publishing." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.204).
1.  Fitzpatrick, Kathleen. 2007. "CommentPress: New (Social) Structures for New (Networked) Texts." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.305).
1.  Fraser, John W. Maxwell and Kathleen. 2010. "Traversing The Book of Mpub: an Agile, Web-first Publishing Model." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.303).
1.  Johns, A. 1998. The nature of the book: Print and knowledge in the making. University of Chicago Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=ERpBdEUdhz8C)
1.  Kirschenbaum, Matthew G. 2008. Mechanisms: New Media and the Forensic Imagination. The MIT Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=CT0oPmcrciAC)
1.  Kling, R., & Spector, L. (2002). Academic rewards for scholarly research communication via electronic publishing (No. WP- 02-13). Bloomington, IN: Center for Social Informatics. (http://hdl.handle.net/2022/167)
1.  Kling, R. (2003). The internet and unrefereed scholarly publishing (No. WP- 03-01). Bloomington, IN: Center for Social Informatics. (http://hdl.handle.net/2022/166)
1.  Lynch, Clifford. 2010. "Imagining a University Press System to Support Scholarship in the Digital Age." Journal of Electronic Publishing 13(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0013.207).
1.  Mandel, C. A, M. C Summerfield, and P. Kantor. 1997. "Online Books at Columbia: Measurement and Early Results on Use, Satisfaction, and Effect." (http://www.arl.org/resources/pubs/scat/mandel-2.shtml)
1.  Sewell, David. 2009. "It’s For Sale, So It Must Be Finished: Digital Projects in the Scholarly Publishing World." 3(2). Retrieved July 21, 2011 (http://www.digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/3/2/000039/000039.html).
1.  Steele, Colin. 2008. "Scholarly Monograph Publishing in the 21st Century: The Future More Than Ever Should Be an Open Book." Journal of Electronic Publishing 11(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0011.201).
1.  Summerfield, M., C. Mandel, and P. Kantor. 1999. The Online Books Evaluation Project, Columbia University; Final Report. (Still looking for URL)
1.  Wicht, Lynn Silipigni Connaway and Heather L. 2007. "What Happened to the E-book Revolution? : The Gradual Integration of E-books into Academic Libraries." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.302).

### The Crisis of Scholarly Monograph Publishing. 

1.  Association of American University Presses, "Digital Publishing in the AAUP Community; Survey Report: Winter 2009-2010," (http://aaupnet.org/resources/reports/0910digitalsurvey.pdf)
1.  Alonso, C. J, C. N Davidson, J. Unsworth, L. Withey, and American Council of Learned Societies. 2003. Crises and opportunities: the futures of scholarly publishing. American Council of Learned Societies. (http://www.acls.org/Publications/OP/57_Crises_and_Opportunites.pdf)
1.  Anon. n.d. "Kairos 15.2: Gold, ‘Becoming Book-Like: Bob Stein and the Future of the Book’ (Interview)." Retrieved July 21, 2011a (http://kairos.technorhetoric.net/15.2/interviews/).
1.  Davidson, C. N. 2004. "The futures of scholarly publishing." Journal of scholarly publishing 35(3):129–142. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v035/35.3davidson.html)
1.  Fitzpatrick, K. 2010. "Planned obsolescence: Publishing, technology, and the future of the academy." (http://mediacommons.futureofthebook.org/mcpress/plannedobsolescence/)
1.  Greco, Albert N., and Robert M. Wharton. 2010. "The Market Demand for University Press Books 2008–15." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 42(1):1-15. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v042/42.1.greco.html)
1.  Greenblatt, S. 2002. "Call for Action on Problems in Scholarly Book Publishing: A Special Letter from the President." MLA Documents and Reports 28. (http://www.mla.org/scholarly_pub)
1.  James, Stephen. 2011. "Flogging a Dead Book?: Prospects for the Scholarly Book and the University Press in Australia." Journal of Scholarly Publishing 42(2):182-204. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/journal_of_scholarly_publishing/summary/v042/42.2.james.html)
1.  Steele, Colin. 2008. "Scholarly Monograph Publishing in the 21st Century: The Future More Than Ever Should Be an Open Book." Journal of Electronic Publishing 11(2). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0011.201).
1.  Thompson, J. W. 2002. "The death of the scholarly monograph in the humanities? Citation patterns in literary scholarship." Libri 52(3):121–136. (http://librijournal.org/pdf/2002-3pp121-136.pdf)
1.  Unsworth, J. M. 2003. "The crisis in scholarly publishing in the humanities." ARL Bimonthly Report 228. (http://www.arl.org/bm~doc/crisis.pdf)
1.  Waters, L. 2000. "A modest proposal for preventing the books of the members of the MLA from being a burden to their authors, publishers, or audiences." Publications of the Modern Language Association of America 315–317. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/463452)
1.  Waters, Lindsay, and Jana L. Argersinger. 2009. "Slow Writing; or, Getting Off the Book Standard: What Can Journal Editors Do?" Journal of Scholarly Publishing 40(2):129-142. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://muse.jhu.edu/journals/scp/summary/v040/40.2.waters.html)
1.  Wicht, Lynn Silipigni Connaway and Heather L. 2007. "What Happened to the E-book Revolution? : The Gradual Integration of E-books into Academic Libraries." Journal of Electronic Publishing 10(3). Retrieved (http://hdl.handle.net/2027/spo.3336451.0010.302).
1.  Willinsky 2009 Willinsky, J. (2009). "Toward the Design of an Open Monograph Press." Journal of Electronic Publishing, 12(1). (http://dx.doi.org/10.3998/3336451.0012.103)

## Work Practice

### Ethnomethodology & Situated Practice

1.  Ackerman, M. S. 2000. "The intellectual challenge of CSCW: The gap between social requirements and technical feasibility." Human–Computer Interaction 15(2):179–203. (http://portal.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1463020)
1.  Button, Graham, and Richard Harper. 1995. "The relevance of "work-practice" for design." Computer Supported Cooperative Work 4:263–280. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://www.springerlink.com/content/pj851233076m611n/)
1.  Button, Graham, and Paul Dourish. 1996. “Technomethodology: paradoxes and possibilities.” Pp. 19–26 in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human factors in computing systems: common ground, CHI  ’96. Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada: ACM Retrieved July 25, 2011 (http://doi.acm.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/10.1145/238386.238394).
1.  Crabtree, A. 2004. “Taking technomethodology seriously: hybrid change in the ethnomethodology–design relationship.” European Journal of Information Systems 13(3):195–209. (http://www.mrl.nott.ac.uk/~axc/documents/papers/EJIS04.pdf)
1.  Dourish, Paul. 2001. Where the Action Is: The Foundations of Embodied Interaction. The MIT Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=DCIy2zxrCqcC)
1.  Dourish, P., and G. Button. 1998. “On Technomethodology: foundational relationships between ethnomethodology and system design.” Human-Computer Interaction 13(4):395–432. (http://citeseer.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download;jsessionid=99816C42C85AF970B3598FED602321EB?doi=10.1.1.25.7616&rep=rep1&type=pdf)
1.  Flor, Grace de la, Marina Jirotka, Paul Luff, John Pybus, Ruth Kirkham (2010) ‘Transforming scholarly practice: embedding technological interventions to support the collaborative analysis of ancient texts’, Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW) 19/3-4: 309-334 (http://www.springerlink.com/content/jj6228l261064264/)
1.  Goodwin, C. 1994. "Professional vision." American anthropologist 96(3):606–633. (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1525/aa.1994.96.3.02a00100/abstract)
1.  Heath, C., and P. Luff. 2000. Technology in action. Cambridge Univ Pr. (http://books.google.com/books?id=aBMVwhVSyyAC)
1.  Heath, Christian, Hubert Knoblauch, Paul Luff (2000) 'Technology and Social Interaction: The emergence of 'workplace studies', British Journal of Sociology 51: 299-320 (http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1468-4446.2000.00299.x/abstract)
1.  Hutchby, Ian. 2001. "Technologies, Texts and Affordances." Sociology 35(2):441 -456. Retrieved May 11, 2011. (http://soc.sagepub.com/content/35/2/441.abstract)
1.  Rawls, Anne Warfield. 2008. "Harold Garfinkel, Ethnomethodology and Workplace Studies." Organization Studies 29(5):701 -732. Retrieved July 18, 2011. (http://oss.sagepub.com/content/29/5/701.abstract)
1.  Suchman, Lucy. 2006. Human-Machine Reconfigurations: Plans and Situated Actions. 2nd ed. Cambridge University Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=KES20V7aP4YC)
1.  Suchman, Lucy (2000) 'Making a case: "Knowledge" and "Routine" work in document production'. In Luff, P., J. Hindmarsh, C. Heath, eds. Workplace Studies: Recovering Work Practice and Informing Systems Design. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press: 29-45 (http://books.google.com/books?id=w5S8sLDhAqQC)
1.  Szymanski, Margaret H., and Jack Whalen. 2011. 'Making Work Visible: Ethnographically Grounded Case Studies of Work Practice.' 1st ed. Cambridge University Press. (http://books.google.com/books?id=HuC9Zf7IRywC)
1.  Engeström, Yrjö. (2000) 'From individual action to collective activity and back: developmental work research as an interventionist methodology'. In Luff, P., J. Hindmarsh, C. Heath, eds. Workplace Studies: Recovering Work Practice and Informing Systems Design. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press (http://books.google.com/books?id=w5S8sLDhAqQC)

### Organizational Routine

1.  Becker, M., M. C Becker, and N. Lazaric. 2009. Organizational routines: advancing empirical research. Edward Elgar Publishing. (http://books.google.com/books?id=8DHhSs8r5iMC)
1.  Birnholtz, J. P, M. D Cohen, and S. V Hoch. 2007. "Organizational character: On the regeneration of camp poplar grove." Organization Science 18(2):315. (http://orgsci.journal.informs.org/cgi/content/abstract/18/2/315)
1.  Brown, J. S, and P. Duguid. 2001. "Knowledge and organization: A social-practice perspective." Organization science 198–213. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/3086055)
1.  Cohen, M. D et al. 1996. "Routines and other recurring action patterns of organizations: contemporary research issues." Industrial and Corporate Change 5(3):653. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/5/3/653.short)
1.  Cohen, Michael D. 2007. "Reading Dewey: Reflections on the Study of Routine." Organization Studies 28(5):773 -786. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://oss.sagepub.com/content/28/5/773.abstract)
1.  Feldman, M. S, and W. J Orlikowski. 2011. “Theorizing practice and practicing theory.” Organization Science orsc–1100. (http://socialecology.uci.edu/sites/socialecology.uci.edu/files/users/feldmanm/OS_Practice_Theory_Paper_FINAL_submitted.doc)
1.  Feldman, M. S, and B. T Pentland. 2003. "Reconceptualizing Organizational Routines as a Source of Flexibility and Change." Administrative Science Quarterly 48(1):94–121. (http://www.jstor.org/pss/3556620)
1.  Feldman, Martha S. 2000. “Organizational Routines as a Source of Continuous Change.” Organization Science 11(6):611–629. Retrieved August 1, 2011. (http://portal.acm.org.proxy.lib.umich.edu/citation.cfm?id=767742.768710)
1.  Hales, Mike, and Joe Tidd. 2009. "The practice of routines and representations in design and development." Industrial and Corporate Change 18(4):551 -574. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/18/4/551.abstract)
1.  Pentland, Brian T, and Martha S Feldman. 2008. "Designing routines: On the folly of designing artifacts, while hoping for patterns of action." Information and Organization 18:235–250. Retrieved May 12, 2011. (http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1471772708000298)
1.  Pentland, Brian T., and Martha S. Feldman. 2005. "Organizational routines as a unit of analysis." Industrial and Corporate Change 14(5):793 -815. Retrieved May 3, 2011. (http://icc.oxfordjournals.org/content/14/5/793.abstract)
