chapter-four-research-design.markdown, before:

# Chapter 4 - Research Design / Design Research

## Research Conundrum

As noted above, my phenomenal interest in the digital humanities is focused on what I am calling "Ackerman's Aphorism." The disparity between technological possibility and social acceptability, like the disparity between social fluidity and technological rigidity, is a fruitful and ever present tension in all human machine interactions. We face, perhaps now more than ever, these tensions as we design and build publishing infrastructure for the digital humanities. Shedding light upon these tensions requires a deeply situated, social scientific investigation of the work practice of digital humanists and the scholarly publishers who facilitate the dissemination of knowledge.

## Social Studies of the Digital Humanities

As I am exploring at the digital humanities from an ethnomethodological perspective, deeply situated ethnographic investigation is the obvious choice for a research design. I am taking seriously Christine Borgman's challenge: "Where are the social studies of digital humanities? (2009)" Humanist scholar's work practices have not been explored to the same degree as those of the physicists, astronomer, or medical doctor. The emergence of the digital humanities has given rise to a reflexive dialog, often to the point of naval gazing, about humanities scholarship in the digital age, but these inquiries are not accompanied by an eye towards the locally situated production of social order (to say the least). Missing from the digital humanist's discourse is the voice of social scientists who already observed these destabilizing changes in the sciences. Furthermore, there is a distinct gap in the science studies literature about the emergence of the digital humanities (though would these investigations count as "science studies?""). With this study I answer Borgman's challenge with a simple "Here."

## Design Research as Methodology

I also toss into the mix a builder's mentality; baggage indubitably accompanying any "recovering" technologist. Once upon a time I was a programmer and computer scientist. Interesting circumstance first led me to the digital humanities as a part time programmer for the Zotero project. The desire to build tools and infrastructure to support scholarship, especially publishing, motivates my current research. One of the things that attracts me to the digital humanities is the "builder's enthusiasm,"[*](http://lenz.unl.edu/papers/2011/01/08/whos-in-and-whos-out.html) although this enthusiasm is accompanied by a dose of trepidation within the community. [*](http://www.samplereality.com/2011/05/25/the-digital-humanities-is-not-about-building-its-about-sharing/)

Building and designing sociotechnical infrastructure for DH is a key theme for this research design. My interest is not merely in "observing" the work practices of scholars and publishers, rather I believe to fully understand the "crisis of scholarly publishing" and the digital humanities, I need to _work with_ those who _do_. In ethnomethodological terms, I must obtain what is called _unique adequacy_ in , or an actor's understanding of the phenomena of interest. 

From Crabtree (2004):
	1. Let designers build whatever they want with whomever they want, subject to their own constraints.
	2. Deploy the objects of design in real world settings.
	3. Treat deployment as a breaching experiment.
	4. Explicate the accountable structures of practical action made visible in the breach.
	5. Explore the topics identified in the breach through the study of perspicuous settings.
	6. Use the studies of perspicuous settings to flesh out abstract design concepts.
	7. Deploy the new design solution in real world settings and study its use.
	8. Repeat the process until the research agenda has been satisfied for all practical purposes."

## Research Setting

I have an emerging relationship with MPublishing, the University of Michgan's office of publishing. Mpublishing's services span an ever broadening horizon, from monograph production and printing books, to electronic journals, to archiving digital artifacts and producing multi-modal scholarly information systems. It is the boundary pushing work, their experiments in new modalities of publishing, such as putting books online via CommentPress or websites like [Theater Historiography](http://theater-historiography.org/), that holds my interest. As I see it, Mpublishing is actively experimenting and testing the boundaries of acceptable publishing practice, exploring the gap of Ackerman's Aphorism, or the “divide between what we know is possible technically and what is acceptable socially.”


I have a research site, MPublishing, and a conceptual and methodological orientation, work-practice and organizational routine, scoped down to a bite sized domain, publishing in the digital humanities. This research would both observer and work with MPublishing and the scholars they serve to  I have a research problem orbiting around Ackerman's Aphorism, wondering about scholarly publishing in the digital humanities. To frame my question using an evolutionary metaphor: The "crisis of scholarly publishing" pressures scholars and publishers to adapt, we talk talk about these changes conceptually and envision utopian techno-humanists, but how do these changes occur _in practice_? How do the habits, routines, and ordinary practical action of scholars and publishers adapt to these assumed "selection pressures?"

## Knowledge in and through Practice

The practices of knowledge production in the digital humanities are intimately intertwined with those of scholarly publishing. If we take seriously Crabtree's (2004) assertion that "the real world of things concrete only exists for human beings as a result of human practice, and as practice changes so does our understanding of the real world of things concrete." Then we consider seriously the fact that the digital humanities, as a change in humanist scholarly practice practice, may fundamentlaly change how we understand humanist knowledge. 

Scientific knowledge is constituted by and through the material practices of competent actors. We must ask the question, is humanistic knowledge the same? To answer this question we come back to Borgman's challenge, no one has studied the scholarly work-practice of humanists. Are they so different from the sciences that the concepts and theories of studies of scientific practice do not apply? 






## Misc


MAYA, borrowed from Raymound Loewy the father of industrial design, is a principal he used while designing. When designing object, a car for instance, Loewy would sketch the evolution of the designs, beginning with the model T and working towards the present day, then projecting forward several iterations into the future to an "optimal" design. In the car example he ended at Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion car(I have an image to accompany this description which I'll put into the introduction). Given this sequence, Loewy would select not the optimal design, but a design ratcheted back a few steps, finding the design between the current state and the most advanced; the socially acceptable design. 

Borgman's salient question, "Where are the social studies of digital humanities?" (Borgman 2009) provides the basis for this research design. In her article, Borgman points out that while the practices of scientists have been exhaustively examined, the work of humanists remains unexplored. Deeply situated, ethnographic studies of 

However, 





MPublishing is the University of Michigan's publishing devisions. Their organization has very practically experienced the destabilizing impacts of information technology in the humanities. 

University presses have found themselves at the front lines of the technologically induced changes within the humanities. 



Mpublishing is seen as a leader in the field of scholarly publishing, in part because of their active and ongoing experimental approach to scholarly knowledge production. Mpublishing is home to the Journal of Electronic Publishing, a publication that truly practices what it preaches. 
Beyond ebooks and electronic journals, Mpublishing explores new modalities such as interactive web-sites, driven by modified blogging engines, t

Commit message:

brief note on visibility for the research design

chapter-four-research-design.markdown, after:

# Chapter 4 - Research Design / Design Research

## Research Conundrum

As noted above, my phenomenal interest in the digital humanities is focused on what I am calling "Ackerman's Aphorism." The disparity between technological possibility and social acceptability, like the disparity between social fluidity and technological rigidity, is a fruitful and ever present tension in all human machine interactions. We face, perhaps now more than ever, these tensions as we design and build publishing infrastructure for the digital humanities. Shedding light upon these tensions requires a deeply situated, social scientific investigation of the work practice of digital humanists and the scholarly publishers who facilitate the dissemination of knowledge.

## Social Studies of the Digital Humanities

As I am exploring at the digital humanities from an ethnomethodological perspective, deeply situated ethnographic investigation is the obvious choice for a research design. I am taking seriously Christine Borgman's challenge: "Where are the social studies of digital humanities? (2009)" Humanist scholar's work practices have not been explored to the same degree as those of the physicists, astronomer, or medical doctor. The emergence of the digital humanities has given rise to a reflexive dialog, often to the point of naval gazing, about humanities scholarship in the digital age, but these inquiries are not accompanied by an eye towards the locally situated production of social order (to say the least). Missing from the digital humanist's discourse is the voice of social scientists who already observed these destabilizing changes in the sciences. Furthermore, there is a distinct gap in the science studies literature about the emergence of the digital humanities (though would these investigations count as "science studies?""). With this study I answer Borgman's challenge with a simple "Here."

## Design Research as Methodology

Where to begin? Let's attend to what scholars and publishers _do_. For whatever it is, they do it for others and in that visibility, we can _see_ it.

I also toss into the mix a builder's mentality; baggage indubitably accompanying any "recovering" technologist. Once upon a time I was a programmer and computer scientist. Interesting circumstance first led me to the digital humanities as a part time programmer for the Zotero project. The desire to build tools and infrastructure to support scholarship, especially publishing, motivates my current research. One of the things that attracts me to the digital humanities is the "builder's enthusiasm,"[*](http://lenz.unl.edu/papers/2011/01/08/whos-in-and-whos-out.html) although this enthusiasm is accompanied by a dose of trepidation within the community. [*](http://www.samplereality.com/2011/05/25/the-digital-humanities-is-not-about-building-its-about-sharing/)

Building and designing sociotechnical infrastructure for DH is a key theme for this research design. My interest is not merely in "observing" the work practices of scholars and publishers, rather I believe to fully understand the "crisis of scholarly publishing" and the digital humanities, I need to _work with_ those who _do_. In ethnomethodological terms, I must obtain what is called _unique adequacy_ in , or an actor's understanding of the phenomena of interest. 

From Crabtree (2004):
	1. Let designers build whatever they want with whomever they want, subject to their own constraints.
	2. Deploy the objects of design in real world settings.
	3. Treat deployment as a breaching experiment.
	4. Explicate the accountable structures of practical action made visible in the breach.
	5. Explore the topics identified in the breach through the study of perspicuous settings.
	6. Use the studies of perspicuous settings to flesh out abstract design concepts.
	7. Deploy the new design solution in real world settings and study its use.
	8. Repeat the process until the research agenda has been satisfied for all practical purposes."

## Research Setting

I have an emerging relationship with MPublishing, the University of Michgan's office of publishing. Mpublishing's services span an ever broadening horizon, from monograph production and printing books, to electronic journals, to archiving digital artifacts and producing multi-modal scholarly information systems. It is the boundary pushing work, their experiments in new modalities of publishing, such as putting books online via CommentPress or websites like [Theater Historiography](http://theater-historiography.org/), that holds my interest. As I see it, Mpublishing is actively experimenting and testing the boundaries of acceptable publishing practice, exploring the gap of Ackerman's Aphorism, or the “divide between what we know is possible technically and what is acceptable socially.”


I have a research site, MPublishing, and a conceptual and methodological orientation, work-practice and organizational routine, scoped down to a bite sized domain, publishing in the digital humanities. This research would both observer and work with MPublishing and the scholars they serve to  I have a research problem orbiting around Ackerman's Aphorism, wondering about scholarly publishing in the digital humanities. To frame my question using an evolutionary metaphor: The "crisis of scholarly publishing" pressures scholars and publishers to adapt, we talk talk about these changes conceptually and envision utopian techno-humanists, but how do these changes occur _in practice_? How do the habits, routines, and ordinary practical action of scholars and publishers adapt to these assumed "selection pressures?"

## Knowledge in and through Practice

The practices of knowledge production in the digital humanities are intimately intertwined with those of scholarly publishing. If we take seriously Crabtree's (2004) assertion that "the real world of things concrete only exists for human beings as a result of human practice, and as practice changes so does our understanding of the real world of things concrete." Then we consider seriously the fact that the digital humanities, as a change in humanist scholarly practice practice, may fundamentlaly change how we understand humanist knowledge. 

Scientific knowledge is constituted by and through the material practices of competent actors. We must ask the question, is humanistic knowledge the same? To answer this question we come back to Borgman's challenge, no one has studied the scholarly work-practice of humanists. Are they so different from the sciences that the concepts and theories of studies of scientific practice do not apply? 






## Misc


MAYA, borrowed from Raymound Loewy the father of industrial design, is a principal he used while designing. When designing object, a car for instance, Loewy would sketch the evolution of the designs, beginning with the model T and working towards the present day, then projecting forward several iterations into the future to an "optimal" design. In the car example he ended at Buckminster Fuller's Dymaxion car(I have an image to accompany this description which I'll put into the introduction). Given this sequence, Loewy would select not the optimal design, but a design ratcheted back a few steps, finding the design between the current state and the most advanced; the socially acceptable design. 

Borgman's salient question, "Where are the social studies of digital humanities?" (Borgman 2009) provides the basis for this research design. In her article, Borgman points out that while the practices of scientists have been exhaustively examined, the work of humanists remains unexplored. Deeply situated, ethnographic studies of 

However, 





MPublishing is the University of Michigan's publishing devisions. Their organization has very practically experienced the destabilizing impacts of information technology in the humanities. 

University presses have found themselves at the front lines of the technologically induced changes within the humanities. 



Mpublishing is seen as a leader in the field of scholarly publishing, in part because of their active and ongoing experimental approach to scholarly knowledge production. Mpublishing is home to the Journal of Electronic Publishing, a publication that truly practices what it preaches. 
Beyond ebooks and electronic journals, Mpublishing explores new modalities such as interactive web-sites, driven by modified blogging engines, t
