# Introduction

"
What we are always struggling with is the technology of storytelling. There was a time when printing was very crude. There was only a cave and a piece of chalk to draw. Then it became printing, and then there is film, and now is Internet, or multimedia.
Those are the things that are changing. But what never changes and will not change, I predict, is the need of human societies for storytelling. Because from stories we learn how to deal with life. And the struggle with life will continue. As long as there is a struggle for life I will have stories to tell.
"
From a [1999 interview of Will Eisner by Ernesto Priego, found via HASTAC.](http://hastac.org/blogs/ernesto-priego/will-eisner-what-we-are-always-struggling-technology-storytelling)


[in terms of scoping, list the things I'm not going to do...
sage handbook on rhetoric chapter on digital rhetoric
doug eyman trinity college open access rhetoric
"digital rhetoric: Theory, method, practice"]

## Technology and the Humanities

My interest for the purpose of the field prelim is to investigate how information technology has and currently affects scholarly practice in the humanities. Just as information technology has affected business, education, and science, it has also affected the humanities. These technologically induced changes have been extensively studied by HCI, CSCW, STS and Organizational Studies, my hope is to bring the insights from those domains to better understand the digital humanities.

Humanists, like scientists, have been actively discussing and passionately debating the meanings information technology has on their discipline. As it has with the sciences, computation opens fundamentally new research questions, data sets, modalities of publication, and forms of scholarly collaboration. In short, information technology affords an entirely new set of previously inconceivable scholarly practices. 

However, untried or experimental research and publication practices are not necessarily meaningful as scholarship in traditional humanist disciplines. Just because something is technically possible, does not mean it is socially possible (and vice versa). While historians can easily self-publish their manuscripts as Kindle books, or disseminate their ideas via blogs or twitter, these modalities subvert the existing sociotechnicial institutions of accreditation (i.e. scholarly publishing, peer-review). In the eyes of review boards the so called "grey literatures" of blogs and tweets or computer code do not count as equals to journal publications and books (at least not yet). The complex relation between the activities technology enables and the acceptability of those activities within the digital humanities is my theoretical interest.

### Topology of Impact

The "humanities" is an extremely broad field, as such, to actually make any informative progress I am going to need to establish some boundaries for this project. I begin by _crudely_ dividing the impact technology has had on the humanities into three areas: research, teaching, and publication.

Computational technology affects humanist research in a multitude of ways, from the mundane (such as reading books on the iPad or Kindle) to the grandiose (large scale computational infrastructure with collaborations and research centers tackling grand challenges of humanist inquiry). Digitized data enables researchers to ask questions previously thought impossible (i.e. the rise and fall of a specific word in the corpus of ALL Victorian literature.). Cyberinfrastructure enables researchers to work together across space and time, collaborating on projects much larger than they would have or could have alone. Furthermore, not only can humanist scholars work at a distance, they have started collaborating with researchers from different disciplines. For example, GeoHistory has recently emerged as a mash-up of geography and history, making possible enterprises such as Stanford's [Spatial History project](http://www.stanford.edu/group/spatialhistory/cgi-bin/site/index.php). 

Second, information technology raises fundamental questions about humanitarian pedagogy. What are the baseline skills necessary to be a humanist in the digital age? Technical skills or technical literacy fundamentally shapes one's understanding of what is possible.  Knowing, on a very pragmatic level, the strengths and limitations of natural language processing or programmatic data manipulation affects the kinds of research questions you might ask. Where are students going to obtain technical skills? Could programming become a necessary requirement to be a digital humanist? Or, should humanists instead collaborate with technically inclined researchers in other fields? Large-scale collaboration in the humanities will require scholars from radically different domains, both within and outside the humanities, to work together. In this case, they must learn how to effectively communicate with programmers and technologists. Interdisciplinary collaboration requires common ground between a multitude of scholarly communities of practice. Where humanities scholars learn these technical and communicative skills is an open question, especially when thinking about the future of the field.

Finally, information technology has deeply affected the ways in which scholars disseminate knowledge and information. New technology has begun to blur distinctions between scholarly publishing and scholarly communication. Electronic publishing raises a series of difficult questions on both logistical and theoretical levels. From a logistical perspective: How does one publish and distribute a GeoHistorical interactive map? What are long-term issues archiving interactive and multimodal knowledge artifacts? From a theoretical level: What constitutes “data” in the humanities? What are the boundaries between disciplines? How do we evaluate new modalities of publishing? These questions confront traditional assumptions concerning scholarly dissemination, challenging not only institutions like scholarly journals and books, but also giving primacy to so-called "gray literature." Blogs, twitter, and mailing lists have given humanities scholars the opportunity to enthusiastically connect and share ideas with incredibly rapid feedback cycles. Furthermore, we now have records of these conversations, from the Humanist mailing list started in 1987 to the "#thatcamp" twitter backchannel. The _informating_ (Zuboff 1988) properties of information technology renders visible the invisible college of scholarly communication. In a communicative space that challenges the traditional system of peer-review, how do we know what "counts?"

As a result of these disruptions, scholarly publishing, a vital component of the humanitarian institutional reward structure, is in crisis. The current system of publishing obscure manuscripts for tenure is claimed "unsustainable." The presses are under enormous pressure to do more with less. While digital publishing technology affords fundamentally new modalities of knowledge dissemination, the technical possibilities available to scholars and press are not necessarily _socially available_. The social and academic institutions must be willing to accept change, a tall order for scholarly communities who still insist on print publications and a physical book (or two) for tenure. Institutional habits and routines, especially those of peer review, monograph publication, and tenure, govern the adoption of socio-technological practice, as they should, for too radical a change might throw the baby out with the bath water.

### Electronic Publishing

I alluded in the beginning description of technology in the humanities, I need to set a few boundaries as to make this project comprehensible (and manageable). As I stated above, technology is affecting the humanities in a multitude of ways; chaining the way humanists do research; chaining the way they teach; and chaining the way they disseminate knowledge. In this prelim I would like to focus specifically on the impact that technology is having on the dissemination off knowledge in the humanities. However, even this is broad and requires further refinement. I see technology affecting the distribution of knowledge and information in the humanities in three areas, first in book publishing, second in journal publishing, second, and third in the (enormous) realm of informal scholarly communication, the so called "gray literature" of blogs, forums, twitter, etc. To maintain a manageable scope, I focus this literature review and research design on the challenges and opportunities of scholarly monograph and book publishing in digital humanities. While there is a rich and fascinating literature on electronic journal publishing including interesting and important opportunities for comparative analysis with scientific publishing, I will not be focusing upon that here. Any discussion of the crisis of monograph publishing and the digital humanities must inevitably acknowledge the active role of gray literature. The extent to which I will talk about blogs, twitter and other informal modes of scholarly communication will be exclusively in the service of defining the digital humanities and their relation to the book. How these new forms are contributing to the alleged demise of the scholarly monograph will also need to be touch upon, but, I must emphasize, this is not a thorough investigation of humanities blogs and twitter.

If you talk with anyone in the univerity press community at some point the conversation will turn towards the "crisis in scholarly publishing." This crisis has many facets. From an economic and business sustainability perspective, presses are increasingly being required to maintain profitability as subsities from universities are shrinking (or vanishing altogether). This has potentially devistating implications for the meritocratic allusions of the academy. How many first time authors aren't getting published, not because their work lacks quality, but because it won't sell? 

While the conversation regarding open access and intellectual property focuses more upon the publication of journals, it is also relevant to the discussion of scholarly monographs. To maintain economic sustainabiliy, university presses are raising the prices of academic works. Libraries, with ever shrinking aquisition budgets, are less likely to purchase academic texts with a high price but low circulation value. This results in a situation that makes books difficult to obtain for researchers without benefit of a hefty research budget or students without their own (or their advisor's) incentive accounts. 

The economic and open access challenges of scholarly publishing require serious and sustained research in their own right. In the interest of pragmatics, I will not be tackling either of these problems directly–although they will certainly creep in from time to time. This prelim is more interested in the social and technical _practices_ of scholarly publishing, how those practices are intimately related to the constitution of knowledge and the implications of change.

I could take a techno-utopiast position and claim free ebooks, published by scholars themselves, will solve the "crisis of scholarly publishing" in one fell swoop. While there is a remote possibility "ebooks for everyone!" could work, I would be ignoring a host of social factors that intertwine, creating the complex ecosystem that is scholarly monograph publishing. While there are ample arguments esposing what is technically possible with electronic publishing technologies, everyday pragmatics reveal a much less futuristic reality. 

I wish to use the digital humanities as a lens through which I can explore how the destabilization of scholarly publishing represents a potential sea-change in the methods by which humanists "come to know" what it is they know. By analyzing current rhetoric within and about the digital humanities literature, I want think about how the implications of the digital humanities extend far beyond simply new research methods and research objects for scholarly practice. Rather, I think 

Beginning with the digital humanities piped through a series of scoping functions, I am left with a reasonably bite sized research object: the sociotechnical work practices of digital humanities scholars and publishers as the collaborate to produce monographs in the midst of a crisis of scholarly publishing.

### Ackerman's Aphorism

We can not, and should not, deny the impact that technology has had upon the publishing world, but at the same time we must be careful not to adopt a deterministic attitude by believing technology causally drives change in work practice. This field prelim will explore how the work practices of scholarly publishing resist change despite the pressures to adapt and evolve in the face of new digital publishing technologies. Why is it that traditional modalities of knowledge dissemination, iconified by the humanities monograph, persist and new forms like self-published ebooks, blogs and other "grey literature" (Facebook serials, twitter diatribes, etc) are not acceptable in the eyes of (many) tenure review boards?  I think of this phenomenon as a flavor of what Ackerman called the “social-technical gap,” or the “divide between what we know we must support socially and what we can support technically (2000)." This is the gap between the rigid and inflexible operation of technological systems and the richly contextualized, fluid, and flexible practices of social worlds.  In scholarly publishing, I see a socio-technical gap that reverses Ackerman's version, I see a “divide between what we know is possible technically and what we can support socially.” Both flavors of the gap are fundamentally about the social and technical practices that reciprocate in a mutually constitutive relation; I call this “Ackerman’s Aphorism” and it is my prelim’s fundamental phenomenon.

My interest in this topic emerges out of an ongoing collaboration with MPublishing, the university's office of scholarly publishing and communication. They are acutely aware of the challenges I have described above and actively experimenting, both technologically and socio-organizationally, with new ways to disseminate knowledge not only to affect change, but for their own survival. MPublishing is recognized in the digital humanities and scholarly publishing community as a potentially distruptive organization; they are worth keeping an eye on. My hope is to help MPublishing by bringing to bear insights from Ethnomethodology and CSCW's  investigations of socio-technical work-practice and Organizational studies's investigations of habit and routine. I believe the insights from these disciplines can move us beyond techno-utopian ruminations of electronic publishing’s afforded possibilities towards a better understand how social practice shapes technological adoption and how we might acceptably take advantage of the sociotechnically afforded possibilities. My hope is to set up a research design that takes concepts and findings in the situated work practice and organizational routine literatures, connect them to the practical problems facing MPublishing, and operationalize them in the designs of new practices, processes, and technology for scholarly publishing.

### Regimes of Accountability

[todo: a couple paragraphs drawing on EM accounts to set up an argument that the mechanisms of scholarly monograph publishing is a _regime of accountability_ by which humanist knowledge is constituted through the production of "accounts" that is monographs. I will briefly draw from ethnomethodologically informed studies of scientific practice and posit that similar patterns of activity must be present within the humanities. This heeds borgman's call "where are the social studies of the digital humanities?"]

## Engaging the Literature

This prelim has four chapters. A first chapter on the Digital humanities that introduces the domain and lays out a working definition; a second chapter on scholarly publishing, focusing on the "crisis" of monograph publishing; a third chapter I call "Situated Practice," which brings together several theories of work-practice to inform "practice of new digital publishing;" and finally a chapter that describes the research design informed by the first three chapters.

### Chapter 1 - What are the Digital Humanities

One cannot reasonably engage in any discussion about the digital humanities or its other nom de plume, humanities computing, without doing a bit of definitional work. This chapter will begin by looking at how technology is applying an adaptive pressure to the humanities and situate the humanities within the academy in the digital age. Christine Borgman's "Scholarship in a digital age" serves as a backbone to this discussion. From there I will briefly explore how the digital humanities has emerged as a response to several decades of innovation in information technology. I draw on canonical digital humanities/humanities computing (DH/HC) literature, for example the Blackwell Digital Humanities Companion and Unsworth's "What is Humanities Computing." The second half of this chapter juxtaposes these literatures, which describe new methodologies and research objects  the digital humanities with a collection of newspaper articles, blogs and other "grey literature" talking _about_ the digital humanities and situating it within broader shifts in the academy, scholarly publishing and the ways in which we constitute scholarly knowledge. This chapter establishes a working distinction between _humanities computing_, new methods and objects within humanist research, and the _digital humanities_,   The goal of this chapter is to show how new technology is fermenting (r)evolutionary change in humanities scholarship, especially in the dissemination of knowledge and the management of "work" by humanists. 

[Julie picked 6 statements that attempted to define the field and "put them in dialog with each other" I think what I want to do here is pick two, the statement by Borgman (2009) and the statement by Pannapacker (2011). They set up the HC vs. DH distinction I want to use for the prelim. Why do I want to make this distinction? Well, I want to situate the DH movement within a larger context of (potentially) destabilizing change within the academy (or maybe I should focus on the humanities) as a whole. ]

### Chapter 2 - Scholarly Publishing

This chapter has two sections, the first is a discussion of the "mechanics of scholarly publishing" or practice-centric view of scholarly publishing as it exists both presently and historically.  Scholarly publishing encompasses a wide range of topics including journal publishing, open access, and business sustainability. My focus here is specifically on the work practice of monograph/book publishing in the digital humanities. What do academic presses _do_? What services do they provide? How are these practices changing in the face of electronic publishing technology. While this prelim is not a thorough discussion of the book as an object in and of itself, I will need to dip my toes into the "Nature of the Book"(Johns), and "Books in the Digital Age" (Thompson). This literature will enable me to situate the book as a social object in the course of ongoing work practice to be analyzed further in the next chapter.  I will also briefly review several explorations of new publishing modalities, for example Fitzpatrick's study of CommentPress, and Kirchenbaum's "Mechanisms." This flows into the second part of the chapter; a discussion of the "crisis of scholarly publishing." Fitzpatrick's "Planned Obsolescence" provides a nice summary of the complex situation facing academic publishers. This grounding will be further fleshed out by prominent essays (i.e. Unsworth, Greenblatt) and white papers (i.e. Harley, Brown). This chapter sets out to establish that new modalities of scholarship, such as the digital humanities, are putting pressure on academic presses to adapt their modalities of publishings. What I want to bring to focus is the need to observe the complex tension technological adaptation presents _in practice._ This sets up a transition to the next chapter, a discussion of technological work-practice. 

### Chapter 3 - Work Practice

This chapter reviews a methodological literature on  technological work-practice with the aim to bring the concepts, methods and orientation towards design to bare upon scholarly publishing of monographs in the digital humanities. In this I will be examination the sociotechnical relations between the electronic publishing and the humanities through the lens of work-practice. This is not meant to be an exhaustive theoretical examination of practice theories. In the interest of time and scope, I only include literature from ethnomethodology, CSCW, and organizational routine. The Ethnomethodology literature sets up a theoretical and methodological orientation that focuses on situated and locally produced social order. I will a sociotechnical perspective to the mix by drawing on foundational literature from CSCW such as Lucy Suchman's work on technologically situated action, Mark Ackerman's discussion of the social-technical gap, and Button and Dourish's Technomethodology. To really get at the heart of the adoption problem and understand how practice can (n)ever change, I bring in the literature on organizational routine. Drawing on Cohen, Feldman, and Pentland among others, I will draw my understanding of sociotechnical work-practice through a filter of organizational habit, routine and recurring action patterns. The intersection of these bodies of literature will provide an analytical and methodological baseline for constructing a research design that begs the question: how does situated sociotechnical work-practice change or not change?

### Chapter 4 - Research Design

The first chapter introduces the digital humanities, the second frames the crisis of scholarly publishing, and the third integrates  concepts from ethnomethodology, CSCW, and organizational studies. From this assemblage of ideas, I have refined my understanding of how the digital humanities and the crisis of scholarly monograph publishing may be informed by a sociological investigation of the practices that govern technological adoption. Furthermore, having identified gaps in these literatures it is my task to try and fill them.

This research accepts Borgman's challenge "Where are the social studies of digital humanities?" and proposes a deeply situated, practice focused ethnographic inquiry of monograph publishing in the digital humanities. As an technomethodology (Dourish & Button 1996, 1998) influenced study, I aim to investigate and render visible the mutually held background expectancies underlying scholar's and publishers sociotechnical work-practices. This is accomplished through what might be called a "build and observe" approach as advocated by Crabtree (2004). My hunch, to be explored using a technomethods approach, is we'll discover the work-practices by which knowledge is constituted in the humanities is deeply intertwined in their ordinary practical action. Thus any change in these ordinary practices, for instance in emergence of the digital humanities, threatens the very constitution of knowledge in the humanities.

Publishing is a vital aspect to scholarly knowledge production, perhaps more-so in the humanities than the sciences. Any study of humanities publishing practice, is concurrently a study of knowledge production practice. I am not contented to simply observe and record as might a typical science studies inquiry of scholarly practice; this research project embeds itself in the interactions between scholars and publishers on the front lines of electronic publishing.

MPublishing, the University of Michigan's publishing offices is actively experimenting with new modalities of scholarly dissemination. They work with scholars to produce a spectrum of scholarly works, from traditional books to interactive websites. The interactions between MPublishing and scholars they serve, the artifacts they produce and the reactions to those artifacts are a rich resource for this investigation into the complicated forces that govern technology adoption. It is through these complicated work-practices testing the boundaries social acceptability that we might inform a deeper understanding of Ackerman's aphorism and adaptation of work-practice.




