So what is it that is being designed here? What is the design process that is being informed by the ethnomethodology, CSCW and organizational studies theories? 
Well, I am not talking about the design of a specific thing or technology? I am not talking about technological artifacts in and of themselves. What I am talking about is a active process in "designing" the relation between the technical artifact and the social practice in which that "thing" is situated. Note: I am not entirely sure _design_ is the correct term here. There is a kind of deterministic and causal implication to design that I want to avoid; design feels to me to fit in the construction of things without agency.  There is agency in this relation that is being designed, you cannot force 
I want something more along the lines of cultivate. There might be some nice analogies with seed-saving or selection. This makes sense in the context of adaptation and evolution. Design is like creating a GMO, whereas cultivating is more like selecting plants with desirable characteristics year after year. I like this cultivation aspect for several reasons. First, it recognizes that these processes are ongoing. Second, encourages unforeseen innovation, a random mutation might create a tomato that is especially delicious or it might be resistant to blight for reasons you could not have anticipated or developed _a priori_, these are modifications you could never have "designed" into the plants because they did not yet exist in the solution space. However, now that these new innovations do exist, we can "save their seeds" and proliferate them (hell, if we can isolate their genes we could design new tomatoes with those traits). What we need to recognize is how necessary an open, safe, and experimental space is to adaptation and evolution. Design reeks of command and control, cultivation reeks of uncertainty and unknowability.

I had a thought reading the first Technomethodology paper. Could I align traditional notions of Design with Parsonian sociology and then deploy ethnomethodological critiques ? After the crit, present the above Cultivation framework, we need a methodology that enables us to "see"  good traits, that is to see new forms of emergent practice that are mutually recognizable as scholarly work, but never the less are evolved. We need a professional vision, like those of the farmers who can see good traits in their heirloom plants, and then appropriate methods to "save seeds" and disseminate these evolved practices.


The inhibiting factors are structures of accountability to produces mutually intelligible work. This is the MAYA principal. 

EM - MAYA - Most Advanced Yet Adequate
Adequacy and competency are recurring themes in EM literature. Actors must be comptetent in their abilities to perform against "background expectancies / schemas of interpretation, [note need to come up with a term for this]" These background expectancies are the restraining factor for technological adoption.

Why not instead of "inventing the future" why don't we recognize that the future will come of it's own accord. 
We can't "see" the future because our eyes belong to the past. Let's learn how to see the fact that
"the future is already here, its just not evenly distributed" then lets figure put how to better distribute it.