README.markdown, before:

## What is this?
Some folks might end up here who don't already know what this is. This is my field prelim, it is an extensive literature review of a topic (or set of topics) and a design for a research project. I am a graduate student at the [School of Information at the University of Michigan](https://si.umich.edu). 

This is an experiment. While writing using revision control, git and github is not actually that new of a phenomena in the tech circles, this _is_ a radical departure from the traditional working habits of humanitarian and social science scholars. Since I was once upon a time a computer programmer AND I enjoy writing code (as long as that code is not java, i'm personally partial to python, ruby and XSLT), this is an effort to trick my brain into enjoying the writing process (I'm still deciding if english is more or less enjoyable to write than java).

 Beyond the structural experimentation, I am also being *extremely* open about the writing process. _EVERYTHING IS PUBLIC._ There are no private files in this project (well almost, i am keeping the transcripts of my meetings closed unless I receive permission to post). Since there is no "data" associated with this particular project, the whole privacy and disclosure and IRB approval problem becomes less complicated. 

As I write, I will commit the changes to this repository. This means that <strike>some</strike>most of the writing here will be pretty raw. DEAL WITH IT.

Please feel free to fork, modify and make pull requests to this work. If you have no idea what the hell I just said just email me.

This github repository will be used for sharing, collaboration and tracking my progress. 

### Repository Contents
*  [toc.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/toc.markdown) - This is a table of contents and general outline for my prelim.
*  [introduction.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/introduction.markdown) - This is the current draft of the introduction.
*  [annotatedbib.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/annotatedbib.markdown) - This is an annotated bibliography. I have been dumping my notes from the readings underneath each citation. 
* [unannotatedbib.markdown]
(http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/unannotatedbib.markdown)- This is an un-annotated bibliography.
*  [squaring-research-design.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/squaring-research-design.markdown) - This is some unstructured free writing about the project and some thinking about the research design.
*  [chapter-one-digital-humanties.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one-digital-humanties.markdown) - This is, obviously, the first chapter of the prelim.
*  [misc-text.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/misc-text.markdown) - This is a dumping ground for stuff that does not yet have a home.
*  [on-design.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/on-design.markdown) - some notes I brewed up about design and adaptation.

### What am I writing about?

My current research is motivated by a series of questions about the pace of socio-technical change and its impact upon the practices of scholarly publishing and the digital humanities. Recent technological change portends radically re-configuration of the humanities and scholarly publishing. Yet, social practices do not necessarily change in lock-step with the technologies they employ. The gap, between practice that is possible technically and practice that is possible socially, and the tensions manifest in this gap are my interest for this project. 

My current project entails reviewing the discussions, both in the peer-reviewed literature and in "grey literature," at the intersection between the digital humanities and scholarly publishing. This intersection is interesting because I believe the "crisis in scholarly publishing" is, in part, being aggravated by the influence of technology in the humanities. Now, I should make clear that I am not claiming the crisis in publishing is caused by the digital humanities (any claims to this effect are far beyond th scope of this project), rather I believe the connection between the crisis in scholarly publishing and the digital humanities, specifically in relation to monograph publishing, highlights an illuminating instance of technologies effect upon scholarship. 

 I divide the literatures into 4 main blobs.

First, I synthesize the literature about (humanities) scholarship in the digital age. I review several canonical texts about humanities computing and the digital humanities. In this section I want to  rather explore a working distinction between humanities computing and digital humanities. Humanities computing, I believe has a very narrow definition, briefly, I want to argue it relates to scholars in the humanities _computing_, or the direct use of computation as a method within the humanities. Humanities computing has rigid and specific boundaries that can be clearly defined. Digital humanities however, as I will speculate in the second section, does not have such clear boundaries. 

Second, I begin to work out from the tightly defined humanities computing to describe the rather amorphous and cloud-like form of the digital humanities. To do so I will synthesize a sampling of "gray literature" includes newspaper articles, blogs, and experimental peer-reviewed literatures (such as Hacking the Academy) to show how the scope of digital humanities expands beyond that of humanities computing. The digital humanities, as the gray literature implicitly shows, has become much more than simply scholars in the humanities _computing_, rather it affects research, teaching and publishing in the humanities. Furthermore, it has gotten caught up in discussion of a larger paradigm shift (Kuhn) within the academy as a whole. After a brief description of the broader implications of the digital humanities, I will discuss one facet of this paradigm shift, the relation between the digital humanities and scholarly publishing.

Third, to begin relating the digital humanities and scholarly publishing I synthesize a body of literature about the mechanics of scholarly publishing. I tie this literature together to develop an analytical concept I'm calling "regime of accountability." Briefly, this regime is the socio-technical infrastructure that enables scholars to constitute knowledge. Drawing on the ethnomethodological concept of accountability, I synthesize the literature on scholarly publishing, specifically of humanistic monographs, to describe a social system through which digital humanists challenges the ways in which scholars produce accounts of their work. This raises serious questions about how digital humanists will make visible the new kinds of practice enabled by new technology.

Finally, I review the recent discussion, in both peer-review and gray literature, anxiously portending the "crisis of scholarly publishing." This crisis is evidence of the broader paradigm shift in the humanities of which the digital humanities is a salient part. Scholarly publishing and the digital humanities are intimately related and any destabilizing change threatens the practices by which digital humanists constitute knowledge. Through the lens of sociotechnical work-practice and the production of accounts, I believe this crisis raises serious questions about how new forms of work are made _visible_ and _accountable_ under the existing regime of scholarly publishing.

A diagrammatic representation:


<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/boundaries.png" width="436" height="459"/>


The final section of this project is a research proposal that attempts to fill the gaps identified in this literature review.

Commit message:

Adding some new bits to the README, specifically introducing the idea of Dark Materials.

README.markdown, after:

## What is this?
Some folks might end up here who don't already know what this is. This is my field prelim, it is an extensive literature review of a topic (or set of topics) and a design for a research project. The topics I have chosen to read and write about are the digital humanities and scholarly publishing. This document is a README, an attention drawing document conforming to the norms of computer programing that provides a meta-narrative of the project at hand.

This is an experiment. While writing using revision control, git and github is not actually that new of a phenomena in the tech circles, this _is_ a radical departure from the traditional working habits of humanitarian and social science scholars. Since I was once upon a time a computer programmer AND I enjoy writing code (as long as that code is not java, i'm personally partial to python, ruby and XSLT), this is an effort to trick my brain into enjoying the writing process (I'm still deciding if english is more or less enjoyable to write than java).

Beyond the structural experimentation of the Version Control System(VCS), I am also being *extremely* open about the writing process. _EVERYTHING IS PUBLIC._ There are no private files in this project (well almost, i am keeping the transcripts of my meetings closed unless I receive permission to post). What lives in this repository are my "<em>dark materials</em>," the writing, note-taking, excerpting, ruminating, diagramming and perhaps other "work" that feeds into the constitution of a final product, in this case a linear narrative summarizing my readings in the digital humanities and scholarly publishing.

As I write, I will commit the changes to this repository. This means that <strike>some</strike>most of the writing here will be pretty raw. DEAL WITH IT.

Please feel free to fork, modify and make pull requests to this work. If you have no idea what the hell I just said just email me.

This github repository will be used for sharing, collaboration and tracking my progress. 

### Repository Contents
*  [toc.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/toc.markdown) - This is a table of contents and general outline for my prelim.
*  [introduction.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/introduction.markdown) - This is the current draft of the introduction.
*  [annotatedbib.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/annotatedbib.markdown) - This is an annotated bibliography. I have been dumping my notes from the readings underneath each citation. 
* [unannotatedbib.markdown]
(http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/unannotatedbib.markdown)- This is an un-annotated bibliography.
*  [squaring-research-design.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/squaring-research-design.markdown) - This is some unstructured free writing about the project and some thinking about the research design.
*  [chapter-one-digital-humanties.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/chapter-one-digital-humanties.markdown) - This is, obviously, the first chapter of the prelim.
*  [misc-text.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/misc-text.markdown) - This is a dumping ground for stuff that does not yet have a home.
*  [on-design.markdown](http://github.com/mcburton/writing/blob/master/on-design.markdown) - some notes I brewed up about design and adaptation.

### What am I writing about?

My current research is motivated by a series of questions about the pace of socio-technical change and its impact upon the practices of scholarly publishing and the digital humanities. Recent technological change portends radically re-configuration of the humanities and scholarly publishing. Yet, social practices do not necessarily change in lock-step with the technologies they employ. The gap, between practice that is possible technically and practice that is possible socially, and the tensions manifest in this gap are my interest for this project. 

My current project entails reviewing the discussions, both in the peer-reviewed literature and in "grey literature," at the intersection between the digital humanities and scholarly publishing. This intersection is interesting because I believe the "crisis in scholarly publishing" is, in part, being aggravated by the influence of technology in the humanities. Now, I should make clear that I am not claiming the crisis in publishing is caused by the digital humanities (any claims to this effect are far beyond th scope of this project), rather I believe the connection between the crisis in scholarly publishing and the digital humanities, specifically in relation to monograph publishing, highlights an illuminating instance of technologies effect upon scholarship. 

I divide the literatures into 4 main blobs.

First, I synthesize the literature about (humanities) scholarship in the digital age. I review several canonical texts about humanities computing and the digital humanities. In this section I want to  rather explore a working distinction between humanities computing and digital humanities. Humanities computing, I believe has a very narrow definition, briefly, I want to argue it relates to scholars in the humanities _computing_, or the direct use of computation as a method within the humanities. Humanities computing has rigid and specific boundaries that can be clearly defined. Digital humanities however, as I will speculate in the second section, does not have such clear boundaries. 

Second, I begin to work out from the tightly defined humanities computing to describe the rather amorphous and cloud-like form of the digital humanities. To do so I will synthesize a sampling of "gray literature" includes newspaper articles, blogs, and experimental peer-reviewed literatures (such as Hacking the Academy) to show how the scope of digital humanities expands beyond that of humanities computing. The digital humanities, as the gray literature implicitly shows, has become much more than simply scholars in the humanities _computing_, rather it affects research, teaching and publishing in the humanities. Furthermore, it has gotten caught up in discussion of a larger paradigm shift (Kuhn) within the academy as a whole. After a brief description of the broader implications of the digital humanities, I will discuss one facet of this paradigm shift, the relation between the digital humanities and scholarly publishing.

Third, to begin relating the digital humanities and scholarly publishing I synthesize a body of literature about the mechanics of scholarly publishing. I tie this literature together to develop an analytical concept I'm calling "regime of accountability." Briefly, this regime is the socio-technical infrastructure that enables scholars to constitute knowledge. Drawing on the ethnomethodological concept of accountability, I synthesize the literature on scholarly publishing, specifically of humanistic monographs, to describe a social system through which digital humanists challenges the ways in which scholars produce accounts of their work. This raises serious questions about how digital humanists will make visible the new kinds of practice enabled by new technology.

Finally, I review the recent discussion, in both peer-review and gray literature, anxiously portending the "crisis of scholarly publishing." This crisis is evidence of the broader paradigm shift in the humanities of which the digital humanities is a salient part. Scholarly publishing and the digital humanities are intimately related and any destabilizing change threatens the practices by which digital humanists constitute knowledge. Through the lens of sociotechnical work-practice and the production of accounts, I believe this crisis raises serious questions about how new forms of work are made _visible_ and _accountable_ under the existing regime of scholarly publishing.

A diagrammatic representation:


<img src="/mcburton/writing/raw/master/boundaries.png" width="436" height="459"/>


The final section of this project is a research proposal that attempts to fill the gaps identified in this literature review.
